Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys business strategy, future financial position, prospects, plans and objectives of management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties are forward looking statements. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the words anticipate, intend, expect, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements, although not all forward looking statements contain such identifying words. All forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied, by the Companys forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are those described in Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report and in other Company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. PART I Item 1. Business Introduction Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms Company, we, our, or us refer to Constellation Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and all references to net sales refer to gross sales less promotions, returns and allowances, and excise taxes to conform with the Companys method of classification. All references to Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004 shall refer to the Companys fiscal year ended the last day of February of the indicated year. All references to Fiscal 2007 shall refer to the Companys fiscal year ending February 28, 2007. Market positions and industry data discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are as of calendar 2005 and have been obtained or derived from industry and government publications and Company estimates. The industry and government publications include: Adams Liquor Handbook; Adams Wine Handbook; Adams Beer Handbook; Adams Handbook Advance; The U.S. Wine Market: Impact Databank Review and Forecast; The U.S. Beer Market: Impact Databank Review and Forecast; The U.S. Spirits Market: Impact Databank Review and Forecast; International Wine and Spirit Record; Euromonitor; Australian Bureau of Statistics; Information Resources, Inc.; ACNielsen; AZTEC; Beer Marketers Insights; The Beer Institute; and DISCUS. The Company has not independently verified the data from the industry and government publications. Unless otherwise noted, all references to market positions are based on unit volume. The Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as the successor to a business founded in 1945. The Company has approximately 7,900 employees located throughout the world and the corporate headquarters are located in Fairport, New York. 1 The Company is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol with a broad portfolio of brands across the wine, imported beer and spirits categories. The Company has the largest wine business in the world and has a leading market position in each of its core markets, which include the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand. In the United States, the Company is the largest multi category (wine, imported beer and spirits) supplier of beverage alcohol. In addition to its position in wine, the Company is the largest marketer of imported beer in 25 primarily western states, where it has exclusive rights to distribute the Mexican brands in its portfolio, and is a leading producer and marketer of distilled spirits. With its broad product portfolio, the Company believes it is distinctly positioned to satisfy an array of consumer preferences across all beverage alcohol categories and price points. Many of the Companys products are recognized leaders in their respective categories and geographic markets. The Companys strong market positions make the Company a supplier of choice to its customers, who include wholesale distributors, retailers and on premise locations. In addition, in the United Kingdom, the Company is the leading independent (non brewery owned) drinks wholesaler, providing a full range of beverage alcohol and soft drinks to the on premise trade. The Company leverages this business as a strategic route to market for its imported wine portfolio. Net sales by product category are summarized as follows: For the Year Ended February 28, 2006 % of Total For the Year Ended February 28, 2005 % of Total (in millions) Branded wine $ 2,263.4 49 % $ 1,830.8 45 % Wholesale and other 972.0 21 % 1,020.6 25 % Imported beers 1,043.5 23 % 922.9 22 % Spirits 324.5 7 % 313.3 8 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 4,603.4 100 % $ 4,087.6 100 % The Companys geographic markets include North America (primarily the United States), Europe (primarily the United Kingdom) and Australasia (primarily Australia and New Zealand). Net sales by geographic area (based on the location of the selling company) are summarized as follows: For the Year Ended February 28, 2006 % of Total For the Year Ended February 28, 2005 % of Total (in millions) North America $ 2,912.1 63 % $ 2,387.3 58 % Europe 1,372.0 30 % 1,385.6 34 % Australasia 319.3 7 % 314.7 8 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 4,603.4 100 % $ 4,087.6 100 % 2 There are certain key trends within the beverage alcohol industry which include: Consolidation of wholesalers and retailers; and Attractive consumer trends which include: An increase in global wine consumption; Growth of New World wines (wines produced from the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Chile, Argentina and South Africa) in the Companys core markets outpacing growth of Old World wines (wines primarily produced in European countries including France, Germany, Spain and Italy); Wine and spirits categories growing at a faster rate than the beer category, particularly in the U.S. and the U.K.; and Consumers trading up to premium products within each category. On a global basis, within the wine category, premium wines are growing faster than value priced wines. In the United States, within the beer category, imported beers are growing faster than domestic beers, and premium spirits are growing faster than value priced spirits. To capitalize on these trends, the Company has employed a strategy of growing through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions to become more competitive, with a focus on the faster growing segments of the beverage alcohol industry and developing strong market positions in the wine, imported beer and spirits categories. Key elements of the Companys strategy include: Leveraging the Companys existing portfolio of leading brands; Developing new products, new packaging and line extensions; Diversifying the Companys product portfolio with an emphasis on premium spirits and premium, super premium and fine wines; Diversifying geographic markets with a focus on expansion in Canada, Western Europe, Eastern Europe and Japan; Strengthening its relationships with wholesalers and retailers; Expanding its distribution and enhancing its production capabilities; Realizing operating synergies; and Acquiring additional management, operational, marketing, and product development expertise. As part of the Companys strategy outlined above, on April 2, 2006, the Company entered into an arrangement agreement with Vincor International Inc. (Vincor) under which, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, the Company will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Vincor at a cash price of Cdn$36.50 per common share. The transaction, including Vincors outstanding indebtedness, is valued at approximately Cdn$1.5 billion and is currently expected to be completed in early June 2006. Vincor is Canadas largest producer and marketer of wines, and as such, Canada would become a core market for the Company. Vincor is also a marketer of wine in the United Kingdom, including the leading South African wine, and a producer and marketer of premium, super premium and fine wines from California, Washington State, Western Australia and New Zealand. Vincors well known brands include Inniskillin, Jackson Triggs, Sumac Ridge, Hawthorne Mountain, Sawmill Creek, Notre Vin Maison, Entre Lacs, LAmbiance, Caballero de Chile, Spumante Bambino, President Canadian Champagne, and Okanagan Vineyards, all of which are produced in Canada. In addition, R.H. Phillips, Toasted Head, and Hogue are produced in the United States, Goundrey and Amberley are produced in Australia, Kim Crawford is produced in New Zealand and Kumala is produced in South Africa. 3 Recent Acquisitions and Equity Method Investments In December 2004, the Company acquired The Robert Mondavi Corporation (Robert Mondavi), a leading premium wine producer based in Napa, California. Through this transaction, the Company acquired various additional winery and vineyard interests, and, additionally produces, markets and sells premium, super premium and fine California wines under the Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Robert Mondavi Private Selection and Robert Mondavi Winery brand names. Woodbridge and Robert Mondavi Private Selection are the leading domestic premium and super premium wine brands, respectively, in the United States. As a result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company acquired an ownership interest in Opus One, a joint venture owned equally by Robert Mondavi and Baron Philippe de Rothschild, S.A. During September 2005, the Companys president and Baroness Philippine de Rothschild announced an agreement to maintain equal ownership of Opus One. Opus One produces fine wines at its Napa Valley winery. The acquisition of Robert Mondavi supports the Companys strategy of strengthening the breadth of its portfolio across price segments to capitalize on the overall growth in the premium, super premium and fine wine categories. The Company believes that the acquired Robert Mondavi brand names have strong brand recognition globally. The vast majority of Robert Mondavis sales are generated in the United States. The Company is leveraging the Robert Mondavi brands in the United States through its selling, marketing and distribution infrastructure. The Company also intends to further expand distribution for the Robert Mondavi brands in Europe through its Constellation Europe infrastructure. Distribution of the Robert Mondavi Woodbridge brand in the U.K. market is underway and the brand has been introduced into most major U.K. retailers. In December 2004, the Company purchased a 40% interest in Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino), the well known Italian fine wine company, and in February 2005, the Constellation Wines segment began distributing Ruffinos products in the United States. Also in December 2004, the Company became a 50% owner in a joint venture with jstar Brands called Planet 10 Spirits. The objective of Planet 10 Spirits is to create and market premium spirit brands in the United States and key export markets. The first product from this joint venture is Effen Vodka, a luxury brand imported from Holland. In April 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of BRL Hardy Limited, now known as Hardy Wine Company Limited (Hardy), Australias largest producer of wine, which enhanced the Companys overall growth prospects and gave the Company an immediate presence in the Australian domestic and export markets. As a result of the acquisition of Hardy, the Company also acquired the remaining 50% ownership of Pacific Wine Partners LLC (PWP), the joint venture the Company established with Hardy in July 2001 that produces, markets and sells a portfolio of premium wine in the United States, including a range of Australian imports. The acquisition of Hardy along with the remaining interest in PWP is referred to together as the Hardy Acquisition. Among the well known brands acquired in the Hardy Acquisition are Banrock Station, Hardys Nottage Hill, Hardys Stamp and VR, Eileen Hardy, Sir James, Omni, Nobilo, Leasingham and Houghton. In October 2005, PWP was merged into another subsidiary of the Company. For more information about these transactions, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 4 Business Segments The Companys internal organization structure consists of two business divisions, Constellation Wines and Constellation Beers and Spirits. Consequently, the Company reports its operating results in three segments: Constellation Wines (branded wine, and U.K. wholesale and other), Constellation Beers and Spirits (imported beers and distilled spirits) and Corporate Operations and Other. The business segments, described more fully below, reflect how the Companys operations are being managed, how operating performance within the Company is being evaluated by senior management and the structure of its internal financial reporting. Information regarding net sales, operating income and total assets of each of the Companys business segments and information regarding geographic areas is set forth in Note 22 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Constellation Wines Constellation Wines is the leading producer and marketer of wine in the world. It sells a large number of wine brands across all categories table wine, sparkling wine and dessert wine and across all price points popular, premium, super premium and fine wine. The portfolio of super premium and fine wines is supported by vineyard holdings in the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Chile. As the largest producer and marketer of wine in the world, Constellation Wines has leading market positions in several countries. It is a leading producer and marketer of wine in the United States, Australia and New Zealand and the largest marketer of wine in the United Kingdom. Wine produced by the Company in the United States is primarily marketed domestically and in the United Kingdom. Wine produced in Australia and New Zealand is primarily marketed domestically and in the United States and United Kingdom, while wine produced in Chile is primarily marketed in the United States and United Kingdom. In addition, Constellation Wines exports its wine products to other major wine consuming markets of the world. In the United States, Constellation Wines sells 19 of the top selling 100 table wine brands and has one of the largest fine wine portfolios. In the United Kingdom, it has seven of the top selling 20 table wine brands and the best selling brand of fortified British wine. In Australia, it has wine brands across all price points and varieties, including a comprehensive range of premium wine brands, and has 5 of the top selling 20 wine brands and is the largest producer of cask (box) wines. Constellation Wines well known wine brands include Robert Mondavi Winery, Simi, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Estancia, Ravenswood, Blackstone, Robert Mondavi Private Selection, Ruffino, Alice White, Nobilo, Hardys, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Vendange, Arbor Mist, Almaden, and Stowells. Constellation Wines is also the leading independent beverage wholesaler to the on premise trade in the United Kingdom and has more than 20,000 on premise accounts. The wholesaling business involves the distribution of wine, distilled spirits, cider, beer, RTDs and soft drinks. These products include Constellation Wines branded wine, cider and water products, and products produced by other major drinks companies. Constellation Wines is also the second largest producer and marketer of cider in the United Kingdom, with leading cider brands Blackthorn and Gaymers Olde English, and produces and markets Strathmore, the leading bottled water brand in the United Kingdom on premise market. In conjunction with its wine production, Constellation Wines produces and sells bulk wine and other related products and services. 5 Constellation Beers and Spirits Constellation Beers and Spirits imports and markets a diversified line of beer and produces, bottles, imports and markets a diversified line of distilled spirits. It is the largest marketer of imported beer in 25 primarily western U.S. states, where it has exclusive rights to distribute the Mexican brands in its portfolio, Corona Extra, Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Pacifico, and Negra Modelo. Constellation Beers and Spirits has exclusive distribution rights to the entire United States for the St. Pauli Girl brand, the number two selling German Beer, and Tsingtao brand, the number one selling Chinese Beer. All of the segments Mexican brands and St. Pauli Girl brand are among the top selling 20 imported beer brands in the United States. Corona Extra is the best selling imported beer in the United States and the sixth best selling beer overall in the United States. Constellation Beers and Spirits is a leading producer and marketer of distilled spirits in the United States. The majority of the segments distilled spirits unit volume consists of products marketed in the value and mid premium priced category. Principal distilled spirits brands include Black Velvet, Barton, Skl, Fleischmanns, Canadian LTD, Montezuma, Ten High, Chi Chis prepared cocktails, Mr. Boston, Inver House, and Monte Alban. The segment is continuing efforts to increase its premium spirits offerings, with brands that include Black Velvet Reserve, the 99 Schnapps family, Effen Vodka, Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Meukow Cognac and Cocktails by Jenn. Constellation Beers and Spirits also sells bulk distilled spirits and other related products and services. Corporate Operations and Other The Corporate Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate related items including executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global strategic sourcing. Marketing and Distribution The Company employs full time, in house marketing, sales and customer service organizations within its segments to maintain a high degree of focus on each of its product categories. The organizations use a range of marketing strategies and tactics to build brand equity and increase sales, including market research, consumer and trade advertising, price promotions, point of sale materials, event sponsorship, on premise promotions and public relations. Where opportunities exist, particularly with national accounts, the Company leverages its sales and marketing skills across the organization and categories. In North America, the Companys products are primarily distributed by approximately 700 wholesale distributors as well as state and provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies. As is the case with all other beverage alcohol companies, products sold through state or provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies are subject to obtaining and maintaining listings to sell the Companys products in that agencys state or province. State and provincial governments can affect prices paid by consumers of the Companys products. This is possible either through the imposition of taxes or, in states and provinces in which the government acts as the distributor of the Companys products through an alcoholic beverage control agency, by directly setting retail prices for the Companys products. 6 In the United Kingdom the Companys products are distributed either directly to retailers or through wholesalers and importers. The Companys U.K. wholesaling business sells and distributes the Companys branded products and those of other major drinks companies to on premise locations through a network of depots located throughout the United Kingdom. In Australasia and other markets, the Companys products are primarily distributed either directly to retailers or through wholesalers and importers. In the United Kingdom and Australasia, the distribution channels are dominated by a small number of industry leaders. Trademarks and Distribution Agreements Trademarks are an important aspect of the Companys business. The Company sells its products under a number of trademarks, which the Company owns or uses under license. Throughout its segments, the Company also has various licenses and distribution agreements for the sale, or the production and sale of its products and products of third parties. These licenses and distribution agreements have varying terms and durations. Agreements include, among others, a long term license agreement with Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc., which expires in 2116, for the Ten High, Crystal Palace, Northern Light, Lauders and Imperial Spirits brands, and a long term license agreement with Chi Chis, Inc., which expires in 2117, for the production, marketing and sale of beverage products, alcoholic and non alcoholic, utilizing the Chi Chis brand name. All of the Companys imported beer products are marketed and sold pursuant to exclusive distribution agreements with the suppliers of these products. These agreements have terms that vary and prohibit the Company from importing other beer from other producers from the same country. The Companys agreement to distribute Corona Extra and other Mexican beer brands exclusively throughout 25 primarily western U.S. states expires in December 2006 and, subject to compliance with certain performance criteria, continued retention of certain Company personnel and other terms under the agreement, will be automatically renewed for additional terms of five years. Changes in control of the Company or of its subsidiaries involved in importing the Mexican beer brands, changes in the position of the Chief Executive Officer of Barton Beers, Ltd., including by death or disability, or the termination of the President of Barton Incorporated, may be a basis for the supplier, unless it consents to such changes, to terminate the agreement. The suppliers consent to such changes may not be unreasonably withheld. Prior to their expiration, all of the Companys imported beer distribution agreements may be terminated if the Company fails to meet certain performance criteria. The Company believes it is currently in compliance with its material imported beer distribution agreements. From time to time, the Company has failed, and may in the future fail, to satisfy certain performance criteria in its distribution agreements. Although there can be no assurance that the Companys material beer distribution agreements will be renewed, given the Companys long term relationships with its suppliers, the Company expects that such agreements will be renewed prior to their expiration and does not believe that these agreements will be terminated. Competition The beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive. The Company competes on the basis of quality, price, brand recognition and distribution strength. The Companys beverage alcohol products compete with other alcoholic and non alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well as shelf space in retail stores, restaurant presence and wholesaler attention. The Company competes with numerous multinational producers and distributors of beverage alcohol products, some of which may have greater resources than the Company. 7 Constellation Wines principal wine competitors include: E & J Gallo Winery, The Wine Group, Fosters Group, and Kendall Jackson in the United States; Diageo, E & J Gallo Winery, Pernod Ricard and Fosters Group in the United Kingdom; and Fosters Group and Pernod Ricard in Australia. Its U.K. wholesale business competes with major brewers who also have wholesale operations, in particular, Scottish and Newcastle UK, Molson Coors, InBev and Carlsberg UK, and other independent national and regional wholesalers. Constellation Wines principal cider competitor is Scottish and Newcastle UK. Constellation Beers and Spirits principal competitors include: Heineken, InBev, Molson Coors, and Diageo in the imported beer category as well as domestic producers such as Anheuser Busch, Molson Coors and SABMiller; and Diageo, Fortune Brands, Bacardi, Pernod Ricard and Brown Forman in the distilled spirits category. Production In the United States, the Company operates 19 wineries where wine is produced from many varieties of grapes grown principally in the Napa, Sonoma, Monterey and San Joaquin regions of California. In Australia, the Company operates 10 wineries where wine is produced from many varieties of grapes grown in most of the major viticultural regions. Grapes are crushed at most of the Companys wineries and stored as wine until packaged for sale under the Companys brand names or sold in bulk. In the United States, the Companys inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in September through November during and after the crush of each years grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent years crush. Similarly, in Australia, the Companys inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in March through May during and after the crush of each years grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent years crush. The Company also operates one winery in Chile and three wineries in New Zealand. The Company has seven facilities for the production and bottling of its distilled spirits products. The bourbon whiskeys and domestic blended whiskeys marketed by the Company are primarily produced and aged by the Company at its distillery in Bardstown, Kentucky. The Companys primary distilled spirits bottling facility in the United States is in Owensboro, Kentucky. The majority of the Companys Canadian whisky requirements are produced and aged at its Canadian distilleries in Lethbridge, Alberta, and Valleyfield, Quebec. The Companys requirements of Scotch whisky, tequila, mezcal and the neutral grain spirits it uses in the production of gin, vodka and other spirits products, are primarily purchased from various suppliers. The Company operates three facilities in the United Kingdom that produce, bottle and package wine, cider and water. To produce Stowells, wine is imported in bulk from various countries and packaged at the Companys facility at Bristol, England. The Bristol facility also produces fortified British wine and wine style drinks. All cider production takes place at the Companys facility at Shepton Mallet, England. The Strathmore brand of bottled water is sourced and bottled in Forfar, Scotland. Sources and Availability of Production Materials The principal components in the production of the Companys branded beverage alcohol products are agricultural products, such as grapes and grain, and packaging materials (primarily glass). Most of the Companys annual grape requirements are satisfied by purchases from each years harvest which normally begins in August and runs through October in the United States and begins in February and runs through May in Australia. The Company believes that it has adequate sources of grape supplies to meet its sales expectations. However, in the event that demand for certain wine products exceed expectations, the Company would seek to source the extra requirements from the bulk wine markets, but could experience shortages. 8 The Company receives grapes from approximately 1,100 independent growers in the United States and 1,500 growers in Australia. The Company enters into written purchase agreements with a majority of these growers and pricing generally varies year to year and generally based on then current market prices. In Australia, approximately 700 of the 1,500 growers belong to a grape growers cooperative. The Company purchases the majority of its Australian grape requirements from this cooperative under a long term arrangement. In the United Kingdom, the Company produces wine from materials purchased either on a contract basis or on the open market. At February 28, 2006, the Company owned or leased approximately 20,200 acres of land and vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California (U.S.), New York (U.S.), Australia, Chile and New Zealand. This acreage supplies only a small percentage of the Companys overall total wine needs. However, most of this acreage is used to supply a large portion of the grapes used for the production of the Companys super premium and fine wines. The Company continues to consider the purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional land for vineyard plantings, to supplement its grape supply. The distilled spirits manufactured by the Company require various agricultural products, neutral grain spirits and bulk spirits. The Company fulfills its requirements through purchases from various sources by contractual arrangement and through purchases on the open market. The Company believes that adequate supplies of the aforementioned products are available at the present time. In the United Kingdom, the Company sources apples for cider production primarily through long term supply arrangements with owners of apple orchards. The Company believes there are adequate supplies of apples at this particular time. The Company utilizes glass and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles and other materials such as caps, corks, capsules, labels, wine bags and cardboard cartons in the bottling and packaging of its products. Glass bottle costs are one of the largest components of the Companys cost of product sold. In the United States and Australia, the glass bottle industry is highly concentrated with only a small number of producers. The Company has traditionally obtained, and continues to obtain, its glass requirements from a limited number of producers under long term supply arrangements. Currently, most of the Companys glass container requirements for its United States operations are supplied by one producer and substantially all of the Companys glass container requirements for its Australian operations are supplied by another producer. The Company has not experienced difficulty in satisfying its requirements with respect to any of the foregoing and considers its sources of supply to be adequate. However, the inability of any of the Companys glass bottle suppliers to satisfy the Companys requirements could adversely affect the Companys operations. Government Regulation The Company is subject to a range of regulations in the countries in which it operates. Where it produces products, the Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations and may be required to obtain permits and licenses to operate its facilities. Where it markets and sells products, it may be subject to laws and regulations on trademark and brand registration, packaging and labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes, sales promotions, advertising and public relations. The Company is also subject to rules and regulations relating to changes in officers or directors, ownership or control. 9 The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates. The Company also believes that the cost of administration and compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations does not have, and is not expected to have, a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Seasonality The beverage alcohol industry is subject to seasonality in each major category. As a result, in response to wholesaler and retailer demand which precedes consumer purchases, the Companys wine and spirits sales are typically highest during the third quarter of its fiscal year, primarily due to seasonal holiday buying, and its imported beer sales are typically highest during the first and second quarters of the Companys fiscal year, which correspond to the Spring and Summer periods in the United States. Employees As of the end of March 2006, the Company had approximately 7,900 full time employees throughout the world. Approximately 3,700 full time employees were in the United States and approximately 4,200 full time employees were outside of the United States, in countries including Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada and New Zealand. Additional workers may be employed by the Company during the peak and grape crushing seasons. The Company considers its employee relations generally to be good. Common Stock Splits During April 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company approved two for one stock splits of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, which were distributed in the form of stock dividends on May 13, 2005, to stockholders of record on April 29, 2005. Pursuant to the terms of the stock dividends, each holder of Class A Common Stock received one additional share of Class A stock for each share of Class A stock held, and each holder of Class B Common Stock received one additional share of Class B stock for each share of Class B stock held. Share and per share amounts have been retroactively restated to give effect to these common stock splits. Company Information The Companys internet address is http://www.cbrands.com. The Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including its annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible free of charge at http://www.cbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The internet address of the SECs site is http://www.sec.gov. Also, the public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The Company has adopted a Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics that specifically applies to its chief executive officer, its principal financial officer, and controller. This Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics meets the requirements as set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 406 of Regulation S K. The Company has posted on its internet website a copy of the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics. It is accessible at http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/investors.htm. 10 The Company also has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all employees, directors and officers, including each person who is subject to the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is also available on the Companys internet website, together with its Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing, its Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Charters of the Boards Audit Committee, Human Resources Committee (which serves as the Boards compensation committee) and Corporate Governance Committee (which serves as the Boards nominating committee). These materials are accessible at http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/investors.htm. Additionally, amendments to, and waivers granted to the Companys directors and executive officers under the Companys codes of ethics, if any, will be posted in this area of the Companys website. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics, and or the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines and committee charters are available in print to any shareholder who requests it. Shareholders should direct such requests in writing to Investor Relations Department, Constellation Brands, Inc., 370 Woodcliff Drive, Suite 300, Fairport, New York 14450 or by telephoning the Companys Investor Center at 1 888 922 2150. The foregoing information regarding the Companys website and its content is for your convenience only. The content of the Companys website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this report or filed with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business operations. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial health. We have incurred substantial indebtedness to finance our acquisitions. In the future, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance further acquisitions or for other purposes. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance. We do not have complete control over our future operating performance because it is subject to prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business and other factors. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet all of our debt service requirements and to fund our capital expenditure requirements. Our current and future debt service obligations and covenants could have important consequences to you. These consequences include, or may include, the following: Our ability to obtain financing for future working capital needs or acquisitions or other purposes may be limited; Our funds available for operations, expansion or distributions will be reduced because we will dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on Our indebtedness and dividends on our Series A mandatory convertible preferred stock; Our ability to conduct our business could be limited by restrictive covenants; and Our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be greater than less leveraged competitors and, thus, our ability to withstand competitive pressures may be limited. 11 Our senior credit facility and the indentures under which our debt securities have been issued contain restrictive covenants and provisions. These covenants and provisions affect our ability to grant additional liens, incur additional debt, sell assets, engage in changes of control, pay dividends, enter into transactions with affiliates, make investments and engage in certain other fundamental changes. Our senior credit facility also contains restrictions on our ability to make acquisitions and certain financial ratio tests, including a debt coverage ratio, a senior debt coverage ratio, a fixed charges ratio and an interest coverage ratio. These restrictions could limit our ability to conduct business. If we fail to comply with the obligations contained in the senior credit facility, our existing or future indentures or other loan agreements, we could be in default under such agreements, which could require us to immediately repay the related debt and also debt under other agreements that may contain cross acceleration or cross default provisions. Our acquisition and joint venture strategies may not be successful. We have made a number of acquisitions, and we anticipate that we may, from time to time, acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. We will need to integrate acquired businesses with our existing operations. We cannot assure you that we will effectively assimilate the business or product offerings of acquired companies into our business or product offerings. Integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies into our existing operations may result in difficulties and expense, disrupt our business or divert managements time and attention. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the United States, we may enter into derivative contracts to purchase foreign currency in order to hedge against the risk of foreign currency fluctuations in connection with such acquisitions or joint venture investments, which subjects us to the risk of foreign currency fluctuations associated with such derivative contracts. We have entered into joint ventures and may enter into additional joint ventures. We share control of our joint ventures. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or the joint ventures. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Our failure or the failure of an entity in which we have a joint venture interest to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that any of our acquisitions or joint ventures will be profitable. Competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are in a highly competitive industry and the dollar amount and unit volume of our sales could be negatively affected by our inability to maintain or increase prices, changes in geographic or product mix, a general decline in beverage alcohol consumption or the decision of wholesalers, retailers or consumers to purchase competitive products instead of our products. Wholesaler, retailer and consumer purchasing decisions are influenced by, among other things, the perceived absolute or relative overall value of our products, including their quality or pricing, compared to competitive products. Unit volume and dollar sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising or promotional decisions made by wholesalers, state and provincial agencies, and retailers which could affect their supply of, or consumer demand for, our products. We could also experience higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses if we find it necessary to increase the number of our personnel or our advertising or promotional expenditures to maintain our competitive position or for other reasons. 12 An increase in excise taxes or government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and other countries in which we operate impose excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products in varying amounts which have been subject to change. Significant increases in excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Recently, many U.S. states have considered proposals to increase, and some of these states have increased, state alcohol excise taxes. In addition, federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies extensively regulate the beverage alcohol products industry concerning such matters as licensing, trade and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers. Certain federal and state regulations also require warning labels and signage. New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees, requirements or taxes could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, major retailers and chains for the success of our business. In the United States, we sell our products principally to wholesalers for resale to retail outlets including grocery stores, package liquor stores, club and discount stores and restaurants. In the United Kingdom and Australia, we sell our products principally to wholesalers and directly to major retailers and chains. The replacement or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers or chains could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to collect accounts receivable from our major wholesalers, retailers or chains could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the wholesale and retail distribution channels, particularly in Europe and the United States. If we are unable to successfully adapt to this changing environment, our net income, share of sales and volume growth could be negatively affected. In addition, wholesalers and retailers of our products offer products which compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, wholesalers or retailers may give higher priority to products of our competitors. In the future, our wholesalers and retailers may not continue to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support. Our business could be adversely affected by a decline in the consumption of products we sell. Since 1995, there have been modest increases in consumption of beverage alcohol in most of our product categories and geographic markets. There have been periods in the past, however, in which there were substantial declines in the overall per capita consumption of beverage alcohol products in the United States and other markets in which we participate. A limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including: A general decline in economic conditions; Increased concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol products and about drinking and driving; A trend toward a healthier diet including lighter, lower calorie beverages such as diet soft drinks, juices and water products; The increased activity of anti alcohol groups; and Increased federal, state or foreign excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol products. 13 In addition, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products. The launch and ongoing success of new products are inherently uncertain especially with regard to their appeal to consumers. The launch of a new product can give rise to a variety of costs and an unsuccessful launch, among other things, can affect consumer perception of existing brands. We generally purchase raw materials under short term supply contracts, and we are subject to substantial price fluctuations for grapes and grape related materials, and we have a limited group of suppliers of glass bottles. Our business is heavily dependent upon raw materials, such as grapes, grape juice concentrate, grains, alcohol and packaging materials from third party suppliers. We could experience raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties that could adversely affect our ability to supply goods to our customers. Increases in the costs of raw materials also directly affect us. In the past, we have experienced dramatic increases in the cost of grapes. Although we believe we have adequate sources of grape supplies, in the event demand for certain wine products exceed expectations, we could experience shortages. The wine industry swings between cycles of grape oversupply and undersupply. In a severe oversupply environment, the ability of wine producers, including ourselves, to raise prices is limited, and, in certain situations, the competitive environment may put pressure on producers to lower prices. Further, although an oversupply may enhance opportunities to purchase grapes at lower costs, a producers selling and promotional expenses associated with the sale of its wine products can rise in such an environment. Glass bottle costs are one of our largest components of cost of product sold. In the United States and Australia, glass bottles have only a small number of producers. Currently, one producer supplies most of our glass container requirements for our United States operations and another producer supplies substantially all of our glass container requirements for our Australian operations. The inability of any of our glass bottle suppliers to satisfy our requirements could adversely affect our business. Our operations subject us to risks relating to currency rate fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations and geopolitical uncertainty which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have operations in different countries throughout the world and, therefore, are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Subsequent to the Hardy Acquisition, our exposure to foreign currency risk increased significantly as a result of having additional international operations in Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. We are also exposed to risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. We manage our exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risks utilizing derivative instruments and other means to reduce those risks. We, however, could experience changes in our ability to hedge against or manage fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing those risks. We could also be affected by nationalizations or unstable governments or legal systems or intergovernmental disputes. These currency, economic and political uncertainties may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, especially to the extent these matters, or the decisions, policies or economic strength of our suppliers, affect our global operations. 14 We have a material amount of goodwill, and if we are required to write down goodwill, it would reduce our net income, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As of February 28, 2006, goodwill represented $2,193.6 million, or 29.6% of our total assets. Goodwill is the amount by which the costs of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. We adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, in its entirety, on March 1, 2002. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer amortized, but instead is subject to a periodic impairment evaluation based on the fair value of the reporting unit. Reductions in our net income caused by the write down of goodwill could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The termination or non renewal of our imported beer distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We market and sell all of our imported beer products pursuant to exclusive distribution agreements with the suppliers of these products that are subject to renewal from time to time. Our agreement to distribute Corona Extra and our other Mexican beer brands in 25 primarily western U.S. states expires in December 2006 and, subject to compliance with certain performance criteria, continued retention of certain personnel and other terms of the agreement, will be automatically renewed for additional terms of five years. Changes in control of us or our subsidiaries involved in importing the Mexican beer brands, or changes in the chief executive officer of such subsidiaries, may be a basis for the supplier, unless it consents to such changes, to terminate the agreement. The suppliers consent to such changes may not be unreasonably withheld. Prior to their expiration, all of our imported beer distribution agreements may be terminated if we fail to meet certain performance criteria. We believe that we are currently in compliance with all of our material imported beer distribution agreements. From time to time we have failed, and may in the future fail, to satisfy certain performance criteria in our distribution agreements. It is possible that our beer distribution agreements may not be renewed or may be terminated prior to expiration. Class action or other litigation relating to alcohol abuse or the misuse of alcohol could adversely affect our business. There has been increased public attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry, which we believe is due to concern over problems related to alcohol abuse, including drinking and driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. Several beverage alcohol producers have been sued in several courts regarding alleged advertising practices relating to underage consumers. Adverse developments in these or similar lawsuits or a significant decline in the social acceptability of beverage alcohol products that results from these lawsuits could materially adversely affect our business. We depend upon our trademarks and proprietary rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property rights or any claims that we are infringing upon the rights of others may adversely affect our competitive position. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our current and future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. We have been granted numerous trademark registrations covering our brands and products and have filed, and expect to continue to file, trademark applications seeking to protect newly developed brands and products. We cannot be sure that trademark registrations will be issued with respect to any of our trademark applications. There is also a risk that we could, by omission, fail to timely renew a trademark or that our competitors will challenge, invalidate or circumvent any existing or future trademarks issued to, or licensed by, us. 15 Contamination could harm the integrity or customer support for our brands and adversely affect the sales of our products. The success of our brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of those brands. Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for those brands, could adversely affect their sales. Contaminants in raw materials purchased from third parties and used in the production of our wine and spirits products or defects in the distillation or fermentation process could lead to low beverage quality as well as illness among, or injury to, consumers of our products and may result in reduced sales of the affected brand or all of our brands. An increase in the cost of energy could affect our profitability. Recently, we have experienced significant increases in energy costs, and energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs. Our future operating expenses and margins will be dependent on our ability to manage the impact of cost increases. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to pass along increased energy costs to our customers through increased prices. Our reliance upon complex information systems distributed worldwide and our reliance upon third party global networks means we could experience interruptions to our business services. We depend on information technology to enable us to operate efficiently and interface with customers, as well as maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate, and effectively manage, the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. As with all large systems, our information systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. Changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements could affect our financial results. New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to us from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. We are also subject to income tax in the numerous jurisdictions in which we generate revenues. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and or sales or value added taxes in many jurisdictions in which we operate. Increases in income tax rates could reduce our after tax income from affected jurisdictions, while increases in indirect taxes could affect our products affordability and therefore reduce our sales. Various diseases, pests and certain weather conditions could affect quality and quantity of grapes. Various diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts and certain other weather conditions could affect the quality and quantity of grapes available, decreasing the supply of our products and negatively impacting profitability. We cannot guarantee that our grape suppliers will succeed in preventing contamination in existing vineyards or that we will succeed in preventing contamination in our existing vineyards or future vineyards we may acquire. Future government restrictions regarding the use of certain materials used in grape growing may increase vineyard costs and or reduce production. Grape growing also requires adequate water supplies. A substantial reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of grape crops and vines, which could lead to a shortage of our product supply. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. Item 2. Properties Through its business segments, the Company operates wineries, distilling plants, bottling plants, and cider and water producing facilities, most of which include warehousing and distribution facilities on the premises. The Company also operates separate distribution centers under the Constellation Wines segments wholesaling business. In addition to the Companys properties described below, certain of the Companys businesses maintain office space for sales and similar activities and offsite warehouse and distribution facilities in a variety of geographic locations. The Company believes that its facilities, taken as a whole, are in good condition and working order and have adequate capacity to meet its needs for the foreseeable future. The following discussion details the properties associated with the Companys three business segments. Constellation Wines Through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company maintains facilities in the United States, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Chile and the Republic of Ireland. These facilities include wineries, bottling plants, cider and water producing facilities, warehousing and distribution facilities, distribution centers and office facilities. The segment maintains owned and or leased division offices in Canandaigua, New York; St. Helena, California; Gonzales, California; Reynella, South Australia; Bristol, England and Guildford, England. United States In the United States, the Company through its Constellation Wines segment operates two wineries in New York, located in Canandaigua and Naples; 14 wineries in California, located in Acampo, Gonzales, Healdsburg, Kenwood, Oakville, Soledad, Rutherford, Ukiah, two in Lodi, two in Madera and two in Sonoma; two wineries in Washington, located in Woodinville and Sunnyside; and one winery in Caldwell, Idaho. All of these wineries are owned, except for the wineries in Caldwell (Idaho) and Woodinville (Washington), which are leased. The Constellation Wines segment considers its principal wineries in the United States to be the Mission Bell winery in Madera (California), the Canandaigua winery in Canandaigua (New York), the Ravenswood wineries in Sonoma (California), the Franciscan Vineyards winery in Rutherford (California), the Woodbridge Winery in Acampo (California), the Turner Road Vintners Winery in Lodi (California), the Robert Mondavi Winery in Oakville (California) and the Blackstone Winery in Gonzales (California). The Mission Bell winery crushes grapes, produces, bottles and distributes wine and produces specialty concentrates and Mega Colors for sale. The Canandaigua winery crushes grapes and produces, bottles and distributes wine. The other principal wineries crush grapes, vinify, cellar and bottle wine. Through the Constellation Wines segment, as of February 28, 2006, the Company owned or leased approximately 10,100 acres of vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California and New York to supply a portion of the grapes used in the production of wine. 17 Australasia Through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company owns and operates 10 Australian wineries, five of which are in South Australia, two in Western Australia and the other three in New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory and Tasmania. Additionally, through this segment the Company also owns three wineries in New Zealand. All but one of these Australasian wineries crush grapes, vinify and cellar wine. Five include bottling and or packaging operations. The facility in Reynella, South Australia bottles a significant portion of the wine produced in Australia, produces all Australian sparkling wines and cellars wines. The Company considers the segments principal facilities in Australasia to be the Berri Estates winery located in Glossop and the bottling facility located in Reynella, both in South Australia. Through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company owns or has interests in approximately 6,300 plantable acres of vineyards in South Australia, the Australian Capital Territory, Western Australia, Victoria, and Tasmania, and approximately 2,500 acres of vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in New Zealand. Europe Through the Constellation Wines segment, in the United Kingdom the Company owns and operates two facilities in England, located in Bristol and Shepton Mallet and one facility in Scotland, located in Forfar. The Bristol facility is considered a principal facility and produces, bottles and packages wine; the Shepton Mallet facility produces, bottles and packages cider; and the Forfar facility produces, bottles and packages water products. Through this segment, the Company operates a National Distribution Centre, located at a leased facility in Severnside, Bristol, England, together with two leased satellite facilities within the same region, to distribute the Companys products that are produced at the Bristol and Shepton Mallet facilities as well as products imported from other wine suppliers. To support its wholesaling business, the Company operates 11 physical distribution centers located throughout the United Kingdom, 10 of which are leased, as well as two virtual depots and two satellite depots. These distribution centers and depots are used to distribute products produced by the Company, as well as by third parties. Additionally, through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company leases warehouse and office facilities in Dublin and has contracted with a third party with respect to a depot in Cork in support of the Companys business of marketing, storing and distributing alcoholic beverages in the Republic of Ireland. Chile Through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company also operates, through a majority owned subsidiary, a winery in the Casablanca Valley, Chile, that crushes grapes and vinifies, cellars and bottles wine. Through this segment, the Company also owns or leases approximately 1,300 acres of vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in Chile for the production of wine. Constellation Beers and Spirits Through the Constellation Beers and Spirits segment, the Company maintains leased division offices in Chicago, Illinois. On behalf of the segments imported beer business, the Company contracts with five providers of warehouse space and services in eight locations throughout the United States. 18 Through this segment, the Company owns and operates four distilling plants, two in the United States and two in Canada. The two distilling plants in the United States are located in Bardstown, Kentucky and Albany, Georgia. The two distilling plants in Canada are located in Valleyfield, Quebec and Lethbridge, Alberta. The Company considers this segments principal distilling plants to be the facilities located in Bardstown (Kentucky), Valleyfield (Quebec) and Lethbridge (Alberta). The Bardstown facility distills, bottles and warehouses distilled spirits products for the Company and, on a contractual basis, for other industry members. The two Canadian facilities distill, bottle and store Canadian whisky for the segment, and distill and or bottle and store Canadian whisky, vodka, rum, gin and liqueurs for third parties. In the United States, the Company through its Constellation Beers and Spirits segment also operates three bottling plants, located in Atlanta, Georgia; Owensboro, Kentucky and Carson, California. The facilities located in Atlanta (Georgia) and Owensboro (Kentucky) are owned, while the facility in Carson (California) is leased. The Company considers this segments bottling plant located in Owensboro to be one of the segments principal facilities. The Owensboro facility bottles and warehouses distilled spirits products for the segment and is also utilized for contract bottling. Corporate Operations and Other The Companys corporate headquarters are located in leased offices in Fairport, New York. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the course of their business, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to litigation from time to time. Although the amount of any liability with respect to such litigation cannot be determined, in the opinion of management, such liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not Applicable. 19 Executive Officers of the Company Information with respect to the current executive officers of the Company is as follows: NAME AGE OFFICE OR POSITION HELD Richard Sands 55 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Robert Sands 47 President and Chief Operating Officer Alexander L. Berk 56 Chief Executive Officer, Constellation Beers and Spirits, and President and Chief Executive Officer, Barton Incorporated F. Paul Hetterich 43 Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy Thomas J. Mullin 54 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Thomas S. Summer 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer W. Keith Wilson 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Richard Sands, Ph.D., is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. He has been employed by the Company in various capacities since 1979. He was elected Chief Executive Officer in October 1993 and has served as a director since 1982. In September 1999, Mr. Sands was elected Chairman of the Board. He served as Executive Vice President from 1982 to May 1986, as President from May 1986 to December 2002 and as Chief Operating Officer from May 1986 to October 1993. He is the brother of Robert Sands. Robert Sands is President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. He was appointed to these positions in December 2002 and has served as a director since January 1990. Mr. Sands also served as Group President from April 2000 through December 2002, as Chief Executive Officer, International from December 1998 through April 2000, as Executive Vice President from October 1993 through April 2000, as General Counsel from June 1986 through May 2000, and as Vice President from June 1990 through October 1993. He is the brother of Richard Sands. Alexander L. Berk is the Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Beers and Spirits and the President and Chief Executive Officer of Barton Incorporated. Since 1990 and prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of Barton Incorporated in March 1998, Mr. Berk was President and Chief Operating Officer of Barton Incorporated and from 1988 to 1990, he was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Schenley Industries. Mr. Berk has been in the beverage alcohol industry for most of his career, serving in various positions. F. Paul Hetterich has been the Companys Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy since June 2003. From April 2001 to June 2003, Mr. Hetterich served as the Companys Senior Vice President, Corporate Development. Prior to that, Mr. Hetterich held several increasingly senior positions in the Companys marketing and business development groups. Mr. Hetterich has been with the Company since 1986. Thomas J. Mullin joined the Company as Executive Vice President and General Counsel in May 2000. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Mullin served as President and Chief Executive Officer of TD Waterhouse Bank, NA, a national banking association, since February 2000, of CT USA, F.S.B. since September 1998, and of CT USA, Inc. since March 1997. He also served as Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy of C.T. Financial Services, Inc. from March 1997 through February 2000. From 1985 through 1997, Mr. Mullin served as Vice Chairman and Senior Executive Vice President of First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Rochester, New York and from 1982 through 1985, he was a partner in the law firm of Phillips, Lytle, Hitchcock, Blaine & Huber. 20 Thomas S. Summer joined the Company in April l997 as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and in April 2000 was elected Executive Vice President. From November 1991 to April 1997, Mr. Summer served as Vice President, Treasurer of Cardinal Health, Inc., a large national health care services company, where he was responsible for directing financing strategies and treasury matters. Prior to that, from November 1987 to November 1991, Mr. Summer held several positions in corporate finance and international treasury with PepsiCo, Inc. W. Keith Wilson joined the Company in January 2002 as Senior Vice President, Human Resources, and in September 2002, he was elected Chief Human Resources Officer and in April 2003 he was elected Executive Vice President. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Wilson served as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources of Xerox Engineering Systems, a subsidiary of Xerox Corporation, that engineers, manufactures and sells hi tech reprographics equipment and software worldwide. From 1990 to 1999, he served in various senior human resource positions with the banking, marketing and real estate and relocation businesses of Prudential Life Insurance of America, an insurance company that also provides other financial products. Executive officers of the Company are generally chosen or elected to their positions annually and hold office until the earlier of their removal or resignation or until their successors are chosen and qualified. Until February 28, 2006, Stephen B. Millar, 62, was the Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Wines and had held this position since the closing of the Hardy Acquisition. Prior to the Companys acquisition of Hardy, Mr. Millar was Hardys Managing Director and had held this position since 1991. Mr. Millar currently serves in leadership roles in a number of industry organizations. He is an Executive Council Member, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Deputy Chairman of the International Trade Advisory Committee of the Winemakers Federation of Australia. He also serves as the President of the Australian Wine and Brandy Producers Association, as a Council Member of the South Australian Wine Industry Council and the Australian Wine Research Institute and as a Director of Drink Wise Australia Limited. Effective February 28, 2006, Mr. Millar retired from the position of Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Wines. That position has not been filled. Mr. Millar remains in a non executive employment relationship with the Company. 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Class A Common Stock (the Class A Stock) and Class B Common Stock (the Class B Stock) trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbols STZ and STZ.B, respectively. The following tables set forth for the periods indicated the high and low sales prices of the Class A Stock and the Class B Stock as reported on the NYSE. During April 2005, the Companys Board of Directors approved two for one splits of the Companys Class A Stock and Class B Stock, which were distributed in the form of stock dividends on May 13, 2005, to stockholders of record on April 29, 2005. Prices in the following tables have been adjusted to give effect to these common stock splits. CLASS A STOCK 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter Fiscal 2005 High Low $ 18.13 $ 15.45 $ 19.97 $ 17.70 $ 22.59 $ 18.01 $ 28.68 $ 22.33 Fiscal 2006 High Low $ 30.08 $ 24.50 $ 31.60 $ 26.26 $ 29.01 $ 21.15 $ 27.39 $ 23.16 CLASS B STOCK 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter Fiscal 2005 High Low $ 18.03 $ 15.37 $ 19.82 $ 18.08 $ 22.68 $ 18.15 $ 28.64 $ 22.70 Fiscal 2006 High Low $ 29.88 $ 25.99 $ 31.24 $ 26.75 $ 28.90 $ 21.50 $ 27.35 $ 23.32 At April 14, 2006, the number of holders of record of Class A Stock and Class B Stock of the Company were 1,035 and 219, respectively. With respect to its common stock, the Companys policy is to retain all of its earnings to finance the development and expansion of its business, and the Company has not paid any cash dividends on its common stock since its initial public offering in 1973. In addition, under the terms of the Companys senior credit facility, the Company is currently constrained from paying cash dividends on its common stock. Also, the indentures for the Companys outstanding senior notes and senior subordinated notes may restrict the payment of cash dividends on its common stock under certain circumstances. Any indentures for debt securities issued in the future and any credit agreements entered into in the future may also restrict or prohibit the payment of cash dividends on common stock. During April 2005, the Companys Board of Directors approved two for one stock splits of the Companys Class A Stock and Class B Stock, which were distributed in the form of stock dividends on May 13, 2005, to stockholders of record on April 29, 2005. Share and per share amounts have been retroactively restated to give effect to these common stock splits. 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data For the Years Ended February 28, 2006 February 28, 2005 February 29, 2004 February 28, 2003 February 28, 2002 (in thousands, except per share data) Sales $ 5,706,925 $ 5,139,863 $ 4,469,270 $ 3,583,082 $ 3,420,213 Less excise taxes (1,103,477 ) (1,052,225 ) (916,841 ) (851,470 ) (813,455 ) Net sales 4,603,448 4,087,638 3,552,429 2,731,612 2,606,758 Cost of product sold (3,278,859 ) (2,947,049 ) (2,576,641 ) (1,970,897 ) (1,911,598 ) Gross profit 1,324,589 1,140,589 975,788 760,715 695,160 Selling, general and administrative expenses(1) (612,404 ) (555,694 ) (457,277 ) (350,993 ) (355,269 ) Acquisition related integration costs(2) (16,788 ) (9,421 ) Restructuring and related charges(3) (29,282 ) (7,578 ) (31,154 ) (4,764 ) Operating income 666,115 567,896 487,357 404,958 339,891 Gain on change in fair value of derivative instruments 1,181 23,129 Equity in earnings of equity method investees 825 1,753 542 12,236 1,667 Interest expense, net (189,682 ) (137,675 ) (144,683 ) (105,387 ) (114,189 ) Income before income taxes 477,258 431,974 344,397 334,936 227,369 Provision for income taxes(1) (151,996 ) (155,510 ) (123,983 ) (131,630 ) (90,948 ) Net income 325,262 276,464 220,414 203,306 136,421 Dividends on preferred stock (9,804 ) (9,804 ) (5,746 ) Income available to common stockholders $ 315,458 $ 266,660 $ 214,668 $ 203,306 $ 136,421 Earnings per common share(4): Basic Class A Common Stock(5) $ 1.44 $ 1.25 $ 1.08 $ 1.15 $ 0.81 Basic Class B Common Stock(5) $ 1.31 $ 1.14 $ 0.98 $ 1.04 $ 0.73 Diluted $ 1.36 $ 1.19 $ 1.03 $ 1.10 $ 0.78 Supplemental data restated for effect of SFAS No. 142: Adjusted operating income $ 666,115 $ 567,896 $ 487,357 $ 404,958 $ 369,780 Adjusted net income $ 325,262 $ 276,464 $ 220,414 $ 203,306 $ 155,367 Adjusted income available to common stockholders $ 315,458 $ 266,660 $ 214,668 $ 203,306 $ 155,367 Adjusted earnings per common share: Basic Class A Common Stock(5) $ 1.44 $ 1.25 $ 1.08 $ 1.15 $ 0.92 Basic Class B Common Stock(5) $ 1.31 $ 1.14 $ 0.98 $ 1.04 $ 0.84 Diluted $ 1.36 $ 1.19 $ 1.03 $ 1.10 $ 0.88 Total assets $ 7,400,554 $ 7,804,172 $ 5,558,673 $ 3,196,330 $ 3,069,385 Long term debt, including current maturities $ 2,729,846 $ 3,272,801 $ 2,046,098 $ 1,262,895 $ 1,374,792 23 (1) Effective March 1, 2003, the Company completed its adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145 (SFAS No. 145), Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. Accordingly, the adoption of the provisions rescinding Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 4 (SFAS No. 4), Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt, resulted in a reclassification of the extraordinary loss related to the extinguishment of debt recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 ($1.6 million, net of income taxes), by increasing selling, general and administrative expenses ($2.6 million) and decreasing the provision for income taxes ($1.0 million). (2) For a detailed discussion of acquisition related integration costs for the years ended February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the caption Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Acquisition Related Integration Costs and Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Acquisition Related Integration Costs, respectively. (3) For a detailed discussion of restructuring and related charges for the years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the captions Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Restructuring and Related Charges and Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Restructuring and Related Charges, respectively. (4) All per share data have been adjusted to give effect to the two for one splits of the Companys two classes of common stock, which were distributed in the form of stock dividends in May 2005. (5) Effective June 1, 2004, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 03 6 (EITF No. 03 6), Participating Securities and the Two Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128. EITF No. 03 6 clarifies what is meant by a participating security, provides guidance on applying the two class method for computing earnings per share, and required affected companies to retroactively restate earnings per share amounts for all periods presented. Under EITF No. 03 6, the Companys Class B Convertible Common Stock is considered a participating security requiring the use of the two class method for the computation of earnings per common share basic, rather than the if converted method which was previously used. Accordingly, earnings per common share basic reflects the application of EITF No. 03 6 and has been computed using the two class method for all periods presented. For the years ended February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Effective March 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (SFAS No. 142), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 142 addresses financial accounting and reporting for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 17, Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are no longer amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life will continue to be amortized over their useful lives and are subject to review for impairment. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company determined that certain of its intangible assets met the criteria to be considered indefinite lived and, accordingly, ceased their amortization effective March 1, 2002. These intangible assets consisted principally of trademarks. The Companys trademarks relate to well established brands owned by the Company which were previously amortized over 40 years. Intangible assets determined to have a finite life, primarily distribution agreements, continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives which were not modified as a result of adopting SFAS No. 142. The supplemental data section above presents operating income, income before extraordinary item, net income and earnings per share information for the comparative periods as if the nonamortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 had been applied as of March 1, 2001. 24 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview The Company is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, imported beer and spirits categories. The Company has the largest wine business in the world and is the largest multi category supplier of beverage alcohol in the United States (U.S.); a leading producer and exporter of wine from Australia and New Zealand; and both a major producer and independent drinks wholesaler in the United Kingdom (U.K.). The Company reports its operating results in three segments: Constellation Wines (branded wines, and U.K. wholesale and other), Constellation Beers and Spirits (imported beers and distilled spirits) and Corporate Operations and Other. Amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment consist of general corporate administration and finance expenses. These amounts include costs of executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global strategic sourcing. Any costs incurred at the corporate office that are applicable to the segments are allocated to the appropriate segment. The amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment are general costs that are applicable to the consolidated group and are therefore not allocated to the other reportable segments. All costs reported within the Corporate Operations and Other segment are not included in the chief operating decision makers evaluation of the operating income performance of the other operating segments. The business segments reflect how the Companys operations are being managed, how operating performance within the Company is being evaluated by senior management and the structure of its internal financial reporting. In addition, the Company excludes acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items that affect comparability from its definition of operating income for segment purposes. The Companys business strategy is to remain focused across the beverage alcohol industry by offering a broad range of products in each of the Companys three major categories: wine, imported beer and spirits. The Company intends to keep its portfolio positioned for superior top line growth while maximizing the profitability of its brands. In addition, the Company seeks to increase its relative importance to key customers in major markets by increasing its share of their overall purchasing, which is increasingly important in a consolidating industry. The Companys strategy of breadth across categories and geographies is designed to deliver long term profitable growth. This strategy allows the Company more investment choices, provides flexibility to address changing market conditions and creates stronger routes to market. Marketing, sales and distribution of the Companys products, particularly the Constellation Wines segments products, are managed on a geographic basis in order to fully leverage leading market positions within each geographic market. Market dynamics and consumer trends vary significantly across the Companys three core geographic markets North America (primarily the U.S.), Europe (primarily the U.K.) and Australasia (primarily Australia and New Zealand). Within the U.S. market, the Company offers a wide range of beverage alcohol products across the Constellation Wines segment and the Constellation Beers and Spirits segment. In Europe, the Company leverages its position as the largest wine supplier in the U.K. In addition, the Company leverages its U.K. wholesale business as a strategic route to market for its imported wine portfolio and as a key supplier of a full range of beverage alcohol products primarily to large national on premise accounts. Within Australasia, where consumer trends favor domestic wine products, the Company leverages its position as one of the largest wine producers in Australia. 25 The Company remains committed to its long term financial model of growing sales (both through acquisitions and organically), expanding margins and increasing cash flow to achieve superior earnings per share growth and improve return on invested capital. The environment for the Companys products is competitive in each of the Companys key geographic markets, due, in part, to industry and retail consolidation. Specifically, in the U.K. and Australia, the market for branded wine continues to be challenging; furthermore, retailer consolidation is contributing to increased competition and promotional activities among suppliers. Competition in the U.S. beers and spirits markets is normally intense, with domestic and imported beer producers increasing brand spending in an effort to gain market share. Additionally, the supply of certain raw materials, particularly grapes, as well as consumer demand, can affect the overall competitive environment. Two years of lighter than expected California grape harvests in calendar 2004 and 2003, combined with a reduction in wine grape acreage in California, brought the U.S. grape supply more into balance with demand during calendar 2005. This led to an overall firming of the pricing of wine grape varietals from California. The calendar 2005 California grape harvest was substantially larger than the prior year; however, following two years of lighter harvests, the Company does not currently expect the balance between supply and demand to change significantly. Two years of record Australian grape harvests have contributed to an oversupply of Australian grapes, particularly for certain red varietals. This has led to an overall reduction in grape costs for these varietals, which may affect markets for Australian wines around the world. For the year ended February 28, 2006 (Fiscal 2006), the Companys results of operations benefited from the inclusion of an additional ten months of operations of Robert Mondavi (as defined below). The Companys net sales increased 13% over the year ended February 28, 2005 (Fiscal 2005), primarily from increases in branded wine net sales and imported beer net sales. Operating income increased 17% over the comparable prior year period primarily due to the favorable sales mix shift to higher margin wine brands acquired in the Robert Mondavi acquisition partially offset by increased acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual costs (see below under Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Operating Income discussion). Net income increased 18% over the comparable prior year period as a result of the above factors combined with a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by increased interest expense. The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting (i) consolidated results of operations of the Company for Fiscal 2006 compared to Fiscal 2005, and Fiscal 2005 compared to the year ended February 29, 2004 (Fiscal 2004), and (ii) financial liquidity and capital resources for Fiscal 2006. This discussion and analysis also identifies certain acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and net unusual costs expected to affect consolidated results of operations of the Company for the year ending February 28, 2007 (Fiscal 2007). This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included herein. 26 Recent Developments Pending Acquisition of Vincor On April 2, 2006, the Company entered into an arrangement agreement (the Arrangement Agreement) with Vincor International Inc. (Vincor) pursuant to which, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, the Company will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Vincor. Vincor is the worlds eighth largest producer and distributor of wine and related products by revenue based in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, and is Canadas largest producer and marketer of wine. Vincor is also one of the largest wine importers, marketers and distributors in the U.K. In connection with the production of its products, Vincor owns, operates and has interests in certain wineries and controls certain vineyards. Vincor produces, markets and sells premium, super premium and fine wines from Canada, California, Washington State, Western Australia and New Zealand. Some of Vincors well known premium brands include Inniskillin, Jackson Triggs, Sumac Ridge, Hawthorne Mountain, R.H. Phillips, Toasted Head, Hogue, Kim Crawford and Kumala. The pending acquisition of Vincor supports the Companys strategy of strengthening the breadth of its portfolio across price segments and geographic markets to capitalize on the overall growth in the wine industry. In addition to complementing the Companys current operations in the U.S., U.K., Australia and New Zealand, the acquisition of Vincor would increase the Companys global presence by adding Canada as another core geographic market. In addition, the acquisition of Vincor would make the Company the largest wine company in Canada and would strengthen the Companys position as the largest wine company in the world and the largest premium wine company in the U.S. The Arrangement Agreement provides for Vincor shareholders to receive in cash Cdn$36.50 per common share. Total consideration to be paid in cash to the Vincor shareholders is expected to be approximately Cdn$1.2 billion. In addition, the Company expects to pay certain obligations of Vincor, including indebtedness outstanding under its bank facility and secured notes. In April 2006, the Company entered into a foreign currency forward contract in connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor to fix the U.S. dollar cost of the acquisition and the payment of certain outstanding indebtedness. The foreign currency forward contract is for the purchase of Cdn$1.4 billion at a rate of Cdn$1.149 to U.S.$1.00. The Company will be required to mark the foreign currency forward contract to market with resulting gains or losses to be recorded in future results of operations. The consideration to be paid to the shareholders and the amount needed to repay outstanding indebtedness of Vincor is expected to be financed with borrowings under an amended and restated senior credit facility. The Company currently expects to complete the acquisition of Vincor in early June 2006. If the pending acquisition is completed, the results of operations of the Vincor business would be reported in the Constellation Wines segment and would be included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company from the date of acquisition. The acquisition of Vincor would be considered significant and the Company would expect it to have a material impact on the Companys future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 27 Acquisitions in Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004 and Equity Method Investment Acquisition of Robert Mondavi On December 22, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of The Robert Mondavi Corporation (Robert Mondavi), a leading premium wine producer based in Napa, California. Through this transaction, the Company acquired various additional winery and vineyard interests, and, additionally produces, markets and sells premium, super premium and fine California wines under the Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Robert Mondavi Private Selection and Robert Mondavi Winery brand names. In the United States, Woodbridge is the leading domestic premium wine brand and Robert Mondavi Private Selection is the leading super premium wine brand. As a result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company acquired an ownership interest in Opus One, a joint venture owned equally by Robert Mondavi and Baron Philippe de Rothschild, S.A. During September 2005, the Companys president and Baroness Philippine de Rothschild announced an agreement to maintain equal ownership of Opus One. Opus One produces fine wines at its Napa Valley winery. The acquisition of Robert Mondavi supports the Companys strategy of strengthening the breadth of its portfolio across price segments to capitalize on the overall growth in the premium, super premium and fine wine categories. The Company believes that the acquired Robert Mondavi brand names have strong brand recognition globally. The vast majority of sales from these brands are generated in the United States. The Company is leveraging the Robert Mondavi brands in the United States through its selling, marketing and distribution infrastructure. The Company also intends to further expand distribution for the Robert Mondavi brands in Europe through its Constellation Europe infrastructure. Distribution of the Robert Mondavi Woodbridge brand in the U.K. market is underway and the brand has been introduced into most major U.K. retailers. The Robert Mondavi acquisition supports the Companys strategy of growth and breadth across categories and geographies, and strengthens its competitive position in certain of its core markets. The Robert Mondavi acquisition provides the Company with a greater presence in the growing premium, super premium and fine wine sectors within the United States and the ability to capitalize on the broader geographic distribution in strategic international markets. In particular, the Company believes there are growth opportunities for premium, super premium and fine wines in the United Kingdom and other new world wine markets. Total consideration paid in cash to the Robert Mondavi shareholders was $1,030.7 million. Additionally, the Company incurred direct acquisition costs of $12.0 million. The purchase price was financed with borrowings under the Companys 2004 Credit Agreement (as defined below). In accordance with the purchase method of accounting, the acquired net assets are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition. The purchase price was based primarily on the estimated future operating results of the Robert Mondavi business, including the factors described above, as well as an estimated benefit from operating cost synergies. The results of operations of the Robert Mondavi business have been reported in the Companys Constellation Wines segment since December 22, 2004. Accordingly, the Companys results of operations for Fiscal 2006 include the results of operations of the Robert Mondavi business for the entire period, whereas the results of operations for Fiscal 2005 only include the results of operations of the Robert Mondavi business from December 22, 2004, to the end of Fiscal 2005. Following the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company sold certain of the acquired vineyard properties and related assets, investments accounted for under the equity method, and winery properties and related assets. The Company realized net proceeds of $170.8 million from the sale of certain of these assets during Fiscal 2006. Sales of these assets are complete, and, since the date of acquisition through February 28, 2006, net proceeds from these asset sales total $180.7 million. No gain or loss has been recognized upon the sale of these assets. 28 Acquisition of Hardy On March 27, 2003, the Company acquired control of BRL Hardy Limited, now known as Hardy Wine Company Limited (Hardy), and on April 9, 2003, the Company completed its acquisition of all of Hardys outstanding capital stock. As a result of the acquisition of Hardy, the Company also acquired the remaining 50% ownership of Pacific Wine Partners LLC (PWP), the joint venture the Company established with Hardy in July 2001. The acquisition of Hardy along with the remaining interest in PWP is referred to together as the Hardy Acquisition. Through this acquisition, the Company acquired one of Australias largest wine producers with interests in wineries and vineyards in most of Australias major wine regions as well as New Zealand and the United States. Hardy has a comprehensive portfolio of wine products across all price points with a strong focus on premium wine production. Hardys wines are distributed worldwide through a network of marketing and sales operations, with the majority of sales generated in Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States. In October 2005, PWP was merged into another subsidiary of the Company. Total consideration paid in cash and Class A Common Stock to the Hardy shareholders was $1,137.4 million. Additionally, the Company recorded direct acquisition costs of $17.2 million. The acquisition date for accounting purposes is March 27, 2003. The Company has recorded a $1.6 million reduction in the purchase price to reflect imputed interest between the accounting acquisition date and the final payment of consideration. This charge is included as interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income for Fiscal 2004. The cash portion of the purchase price paid to the Hardy shareholders and optionholders ($1,060.2 million) was financed with $660.2 million of borrowings under the Companys then existing credit agreement and $400.0 million of borrowings under the Companys then existing bridge loan agreement. Additionally, the Company issued 6,577,826 shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock, which were valued at $77.2 million based on the simple average of the closing market price of the Companys Class A Common Stock beginning two days before and ending two days after April 4, 2003, the day the Hardy shareholders elected the form of consideration they wished to receive. The purchase price was based primarily on a discounted cash flow analysis that contemplated, among other things, the value of a broader geographic distribution in strategic international markets and a presence in the important Australian winemaking regions. The Company and Hardy have complementary businesses that share a common growth orientation and operating philosophy. The Hardy Acquisition supports the Companys strategy of growth and breadth across categories and geographies, and strengthens its competitive position in its core markets. The purchase price and resulting goodwill were primarily based on the growth opportunities of the brand portfolio of Hardy. In particular, the Company believes there are growth opportunities for Australian wines in the United Kingdom, United States and other wine markets. This acquisition supports the Companys strategy of driving long term growth and positions the Company to capitalize on the growth opportunities in new world wine markets. The results of operations of Hardy and PWP have been reported in the Companys Constellation Wines segment since March 27, 2003. Accordingly, the Companys results of operations for Fiscal 2005 include the results of operations of Hardy and PWP for the entire period, whereas the results of operations for Fiscal 2004 only include the results of operations of Hardy and PWP from March 27, 2003, to the end of Fiscal 2004. 29 Investment in Ruffino On December 3, 2004, the Company purchased a 40% interest in Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino), the well known Italian fine wine company, for $89.6 million, including direct acquisition costs of $7.5 million. As of February 1, 2005, the Constellation Wines segment began distributing Ruffinos products in the United States. The Company accounts for the investment under the equity method; accordingly, the results of operations of Ruffino from December 3, 2004, are included in the equity in earnings of equity method investees line in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income. Results of Operations Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Net Sales 2006 2005 % Increase(Decrease) Constellation Wines: Branded wine $ 2,263.4 $ 1,830.8 24% Wholesale and other 972.0 1,020.6 (5)% Constellation Wines net sales $ 3,235.4 $ 2,851.4 13% Constellation Beers and Spirits: Imported beers $ 1,043.5 $ 922.9 13% Spirits 324.5 313.3 4 % Constellation Beers and Spirits net sales $ 1,368.0 $ 1,236.2 11 % Corporate Operations and Other $ $ N/A Consolidated Net Sales $ 4,603.4 $ 4,087.6 13 % Net sales for Fiscal 2006 increased to $4,603.4 million from $4,087.6 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $515.8 million, or 13%. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in branded wine net sales of $440.1 million (on a constant currency basis) and imported beer net sales of $120.5 million, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of $35.5 million. Constellation Wines Net sales for Constellation Wines increased to $3,235.4 million for Fiscal 2006 from $2,851.4 million in Fiscal 2005, an increase of $384.0 million, or 13%. Branded wine net sales increased $432.6 million primarily from $337.5 million of net sales of the acquired Robert Mondavi brands and $43.6 million of net sales of Ruffino brands, which the Company began distributing in the U.S. on February 1, 2005, as well as a $51.5 million increase in branded wine net sales (excluding sales of Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands). The $51.5 million increase is due primarily to volume growth in the Companys branded wine net sales in the U.S. as well as new product introductions. Wholesale and other net sales decreased $48.5 million ($20.5 million on a constant currency basis) as growth in the U.K. wholesale business was more than offset by a decrease in other net sales. The decrease in other net sales is primarily due to the Companys Fiscal 2004 decision to exit the commodity concentrate business during Fiscal 2005. 30 Constellation Beers and Spirits Net sales for Constellation Beers and Spirits increased to $1,368.0 million for Fiscal 2006 from $1,236.2 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $131.8 million, or 11%. This increase resulted from increases in imported beers net sales of $120.5 million and spirits net sales of $11.3 million. The growth in imported beers net sales is primarily due to volume growth in the Companys Mexican beer portfolio. The growth in spirits net sales is attributable primarily to an increase in the Companys contract production net sales. Gross Profit The Companys gross profit increased to $1,324.6 million for Fiscal 2006 from $1,140.6 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $184.0 million, or 16%. The Constellation Wines segments gross profit increased $191.0 million primarily due to the additional gross profit of $171.7 million from the Robert Mondavi acquisition and additional gross profit from the volume growth in branded wine net sales in the U.S., partially offset by the reduced gross profit from the decrease in other net sales. The Constellation Beers and Spirits segments gross profit increased $21.0 million primarily due to volume growth in the Companys Mexican beer portfolio partially offset by higher Mexican beer product costs and transportation costs. However, in connection with certain supply arrangements, the higher Mexican beer product costs were offset by a corresponding decrease in advertising expenses resulting in no impact to operating income. In addition, unusual items, which consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, were higher by $28.1 million in Fiscal 2006 versus Fiscal 2005. This increase resulted primarily from accelerated depreciation costs associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan (as defined below) of $13.4 million and increased flow through of adverse grape cost associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $13.2 million. Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased to 28.8% for Fiscal 2006 from 27.9% for Fiscal 2005 primarily due to sales of higher margin wine brands acquired in the Robert Mondavi acquisition, partially offset by the higher unusual items and higher Mexican beer product costs and transportation costs. The Company expects transportation costs to continue to impact the Companys gross margins. However, the Company is addressing this matter by continuing its evaluation and implementation of price increases on a market by market basis. 31 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $612.4 million for Fiscal 2006 from $555.7 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $56.7 million, or 10%. The Constellation Wines segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $67.2 million primarily due to increased selling expenses, general and administrative, and advertising expenses to support the growth in the segments business, primarily due to the costs related to the brands acquired in the Robert Mondavi acquisition. In addition, general and administrative expenses were negatively impacted as a result of an adjustment associated with the segments U.K. defined benefit pension plan related to a reduction in the period over which unrecognized actuarial losses are amortized. The Constellation Beers and Spirits segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $4.6 million as increased selling and general and administrative expenses were partially offset by lower advertising expenses. The Corporate Operations and Other segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $7.0 million primarily due to costs associated with professional service fees incurred in connection with the Companys tender offer for Vincor that expired in December 2005 and increased general and administrative expenses to support the Companys growth. Lastly, there was a decrease of $22.1 million of unusual costs which consist of certain items that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. Fiscal 2006 included costs associated primarily with professional service fees incurred for due diligence in connection with the Companys evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq of $3.4 million. Fiscal 2005 costs included $31.7 million of financing costs recorded in Fiscal 2005 related to (i) the Companys redemption of its $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due March 2009 (the Senior Subordinated Notes) and (ii) the Companys new senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, partially offset by net gains of $6.1 million recorded in Fiscal 2005 on the sales of non strategic assets and the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales decreased to 13.3% for Fiscal 2006 as compared to 13.6% for Fiscal 2005 primarily due to the decrease in unusual costs. Acquisition Related Integration Costs The Company recorded $16.8 million of acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2006 in connection with the Companys decision to restructure and integrate the operations of Robert Mondavi (the Robert Mondavi Plan). Acquisition related integration costs included $5.3 million of employee related costs and $11.5 million of facilities and other one time costs. The Company recorded $9.4 million of acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2005 in connection with the Robert Mondavi Plan. The Company does not expect acquisition related integration costs in connection with the Robert Mondavi Plan to be significant for Fiscal 2007. 32 Restructuring and Related Charges The Company recorded $29.3 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal 2006 associated with the restructuring plans of the Constellation Wines segment. Restructuring and related charges resulted from (i) the further realignment of business operations as previously announced in Fiscal 2004, a component of the Fiscal 2004 Plan (as defined below under the caption Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Restructuring and Related Charges), (ii) the Robert Mondavi Plan, and (iii) costs associated with the worldwide wine reorganization announced in February 2006 (including certain personnel reductions in the U.K. during the third quarter of fiscal 2006) and the Companys program to consolidate certain west coast production processes in the U.S. (collectively, the Fiscal 2006 Plan). Restructuring and related charges recorded in connection with the Fiscal 2004 Plan included $0.7 million of employee termination benefit costs and $1.3 million of facility consolidation and relocation costs. Restructuring and related charges recorded in connection with the Robert Mondavi Plan included $1.6 million of employee termination benefit costs, $0.7 million of contract termination costs and $0.5 million of facility consolidation and relocation costs. Restructuring and related charges recorded in connection with the Fiscal 2006 Plan included $24.3 million of employee termination benefit costs and $0.2 million of facility consolidation and relocation costs. In addition, in connection with the Fiscal 2006 Plan, the Company recorded (i) $13.4 million of accelerated depreciation charges in connection with the Companys investment in new assets and reconfiguration of certain existing assets under the plan and (ii) $0.1 million of other related costs which were recorded in the cost of product sold line and the selling, general and administrative expenses line, respectively, within the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company recorded $7.6 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal 2005 associated with the Fiscal 2004 Plan and the Robert Mondavi Plan. For Fiscal 2007, the Company expects to incur total restructuring and related charges of $24.8 million associated primarily with the Fiscal 2006 Plan and the Robert Mondavi Plan. In addition, the Company expects to incur total accelerated depreciation charges of $7.0 million associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan. Lastly, the Company expects to incur total other related costs of $8.3 million associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan. Operating Income The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Operating Income (Loss) 2006 2005 % Increase Constellation Wines $ 530.4 $ 406.6 30% Constellation Beers and Spirits 292.6 276.1 6% Corporate Operations and Other (63.0 ) (56.0 ) 13% Total Reportable Segments 760.0 626.7 21% Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring and Related Charges and Net Unusual Costs (93.9 ) (58.8 ) 60% Consolidated Operating Income $ 666.1 $ 567.9 17% 33 As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased to $666.1 million for Fiscal 2006 from $567.9 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $98.2 million, or 17%. Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual costs of $93.9 million for Fiscal 2006 consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs represent restructuring and related charges of $29.3 million associated primarily with the Fiscal 2006 Plan and the Robert Mondavi Plan; the flow through of adverse grape cost and acquisition related integration costs associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $23.0 million and $16.8 million, respectively; accelerated depreciation costs of $13.4 million associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan; the flow through of inventory step up associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $7.9 million; costs associated with professional service fees incurred for due diligence in connection with the Companys evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq of $3.4 million; and other costs associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan of $0.1 million. Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual costs of $58.8 million for Fiscal 2005 represent financing costs associated with the redemption of the Companys Senior Subordinated Notes and the Companys new senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $31.7 million; adverse grape cost and acquisition related integration costs associated with the Companys acquisition of Robert Mondavi of $9.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively; restructuring and related charges of $7.6 million in the wine segment associated with the Companys realignment of its business operations and the Robert Mondavi acquisition; and the flow through of inventory step up associated with the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions of $6.4 million; partially offset by a net gain on the sale of non strategic assets of $3.1 million and a gain related to the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture of $3.0 million. Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees The Companys equity in earnings of equity method investees decreased to $0.8 million in Fiscal 2006 from $1.8 million in Fiscal 2005, a decrease of $0.9 million due primarily to a $5.0 million loss from the Companys investment in Ruffino, partially offset by an increase in earnings of $4.1 million associated primarily with the Companys investment in Opus One as a result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition. The $5.0 million loss from the Companys investment in Ruffino is due primarily to the write down of certain pre acquisition Ruffino inventories. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $4.2 million and $2.3 million for Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005, respectively, increased to $189.7 million for Fiscal 2006 from $137.7 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $52.0 million, or 38%. The increase resulted primarily from higher average borrowings in Fiscal 2006 primarily due to the Robert Mondavi acquisition and the investment in Ruffino in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate was 31.8% for Fiscal 2006 and 36.0% for Fiscal 2005, a decrease of 4.2%. This decrease was primarily due to a non cash reduction in the Companys provision for income taxes of $16.2 million, or 3.4%, as a result of adjustments to income tax accruals in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations plus the income tax benefit the Company recorded under the repatriation provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 in connection with distributions of certain foreign earnings. The Company expects the effective tax rate for Fiscal 2007 to be approximately 36.5%, which is slightly higher than historical levels, as an increasing percentage of the Companys earnings are coming from higher tax jurisdictions. 34 Net Income As a result of the above factors, net income increased to $325.3 million for Fiscal 2006 from $276.5 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $48.8 million, or 18%. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Net Sales 2005 2004 % Increase(Decrease) Constellation Wines: Branded wine $ 1,830.8 $ 1,549.7 18% Wholesale and other 1,020.6 846.3 21 % Constellation Wines net sales $ 2,851.4 $ 2,396.0 19 % Constellation Beers and Spirits: Imported beers $ 922.9 $ 862.6 7% Spirits 313.3 284.6 10 % Constellation Beers and Spirits net sales $ 1,236.2 $ 1,147.2 8 % Corporate Operations and Other $ $ N/A Unusual gain $ $ 9.2 (100.0)% Consolidated Net Sales $ 4,087.6 $ 3,552.4 15 % Net sales for Fiscal 2005 increased to $4,087.6 million from $3,552.4 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $535.2 million, or 15%. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in branded wine net sales of $217.8 million (on a constant currency basis), including $84.2 million of net sales of the acquired Robert Mondavi brands and $45.7 million of net sales of the acquired Hardy brands; an increase in U.K. wholesale net sales of $84.1 million (on a constant currency basis); and an increase in imported beer net sales of $60.3 million. In addition, net sales benefited from a favorable foreign currency impact of $155.5 million. Constellation Wines Net sales for Constellation Wines increased to $2,851.4 million for Fiscal 2005 from $2,396.0 million in Fiscal 2004, an increase of $455.4 million, or 19%. Branded wine net sales increased $281.1 million. This increase resulted from increased branded wine net sales in the U.S., Europe and Australasia of $217.8 million (on a constant currency basis), including $84.2 million of net sales of the acquired Robert Mondavi brands and an additional one month of net sales of $45.7 million of the acquired Hardy brands, completed in March 2003, and a favorable foreign currency impact of $63.3 million. The increases in branded wine net sales in the U.S., Europe and Australasia are primarily due to volume growth as the Company continues to benefit from increased distribution and greater consumer demand for premium wines. Wholesale and other net sales increased $174.3 million primarily due to growth in the U.K. wholesale business of $84.1 million (on a constant currency basis) and a favorable foreign currency impact of $92.2 million. The net sales increase in the U.K. wholesale business on a constant currency basis is primarily due to the addition of new national accounts in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and increased sales in existing accounts during Fiscal 2005. 35 Constellation Beers and Spirits Net sales for Constellation Beers and Spirits increased to $1,236.2 million for Fiscal 2005 from $1,147.2 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $89.0 million, or 8%. This increase resulted from a $60.3 million increase in imported beer net sales and an increase in spirits net sales of $28.7 million. The growth in imported beer sales is primarily due to a price increase on the Companys Mexican beer portfolio, which was introduced in January 2004. The growth in spirits net sales is attributable to increases in both the Companys contract production net sales as well as volume growth in branded net sales. Gross Profit The Companys gross profit increased to $1,140.6 million for Fiscal 2005 from $975.8 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $164.8 million, or 17%. The Constellation Wines segments gross profit increased $122.6 million primarily due to the additional two months of sales of products acquired in the Robert Mondavi acquisition, volume growth in the U.S. branded wine net sales and a favorable foreign currency impact. The Constellation Beers and Spirits segments gross profit increased $30.6 million primarily due to the increase in imported beer net sales and volume growth in the segments spirits portfolio. In addition, unusual items, which consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, were lower by $11.6 million in Fiscal 2005 versus Fiscal 2004. This decrease resulted from a $16.8 million write down of commodity concentrate inventory in Fiscal 2004 in connection with the Companys decision to exit the commodity concentrate product line in the U.S. (see additional discussion under Restructuring and Related Charges below) and reduced flow through of inventory step up associated with the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions of $16.0 million, partially offset by the relief from certain excise tax, duty and other costs incurred in prior years of $11.5 million, which was recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, and the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $9.8 million in Fiscal 2005. Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased to 27.9% for Fiscal 2005 from 27.5% for Fiscal 2004 primarily due to the lower unusual items. 36 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $555.7 million for Fiscal 2005 from $457.3 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $98.4 million, or 22%. The Constellation Wines segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $64.7 million primarily due to increased selling and advertising expenses as the Company continues to invest behind specific wine brands to drive broader distribution and additional selling, general and administrative expenses from the addition of the Robert Mondavi business. The Constellation Beers and Spirits segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $7.1 million primarily due to increased imported beer and spirits selling expenses to support the growth across this segments businesses. The Corporate Operations and Other segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $13.7 million primarily due to increased general and administrative expenses to support the Companys growth and costs associated with higher professional services fees, including costs incurred in connection with compliance activities associated with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Lastly, there was an increase of $12.9 million of unusual costs which consist of certain items that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. This increase includes $31.7 million of financing costs recorded in Fiscal 2005 related to (i) the Companys redemption of its Senior Subordinated Notes and (ii) the Companys new senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition as compared to $11.6 million of financing costs recorded in Fiscal 2004 in connection with the Hardy Acquisition. Partially offsetting the $20.1 million increase in financing costs were net gains recorded in Fiscal 2005 on the sales of non strategic assets and the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales increased to 13.6% for Fiscal 2005 as compared to 12.9% for Fiscal 2004 primarily due to the growth in the Corporate Operations and Other segments general and administrative expenses and the increased unusual costs described above. Acquisition Related Integration Costs The Company recorded $9.4 million of acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2005 associated with the Robert Mondavi Plan. Acquisition related integration costs included $4.9 million of employee related costs and $4.5 million of facilities and other one time costs. Restructuring and Related Charges The Company recorded $7.6 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal 2005 associated with the restructuring plans of the Constellation Wines segment. Restructuring and related charges resulted from (i) the further realignment of business operations as previously announced in Fiscal 2004, (ii) the Companys decision in Fiscal 2004 to exit the commodity concentrate product line in the U.S. (collectively, the Fiscal 2004 Plan), and (iii) the Robert Mondavi Plan. Restructuring and related charges included $3.8 million of employee termination benefit costs (net of reversal of prior accruals of $0.2 million), $1.5 million of contract termination costs, $1.0 million of facility consolidation and relocation costs, and other related charges of $1.3 million. The Company recorded $31.1 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal 2004 associated with the Fiscal 2004 Plan. In total, the Company recorded $47.9 million of costs for Fiscal 2004 allocated between cost of product sold and restructuring and related charges associated with the Fiscal 2004 Plan. 37 Operating Income The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Operating Income (Loss) 2005 2004 % Increase/ (Decrease) Constellation Wines $ 406.6 $ 348.1 17% Constellation Beers and Spirits 276.1 252.5 9 % Corporate Operations and Other (56.0 ) (41.7 ) 34 % Total Reportable Segments 626.7 558.9 12 % Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring and Related Charges and Net Unusual Costs (58.8 ) (71.5 ) (18)% Consolidated Operating Income $ 567.9 $ 487.4 17% As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased to $567.9 million for Fiscal 2005 from $487.4 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $80.5 million, or 17%. Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and net unusual costs of $58.8 million for Fiscal 2005 consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs represent financing costs associated with the redemption of the Companys Senior Subordinated Notes and the Companys new senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $31.7 million, adverse grape cost and acquisition related integration costs associated with the Companys acquisition of Robert Mondavi of $9.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively, restructuring and related charges of $7.6 million in the wine segment associated with the Companys realignment of its business operations and the Robert Mondavi acquisition, and the flow through of inventory step up associated with the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions of $6.4 million, partially offset by a net gain on the sale of non strategic assets of $3.1 million and a gain related to the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture of $3.0 million. Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and net unusual costs of $71.6 million for Fiscal 2004 represent the flow through of inventory step up and the amortization of deferred financing costs associated with the Hardy Acquisition of $22.5 million and $11.6 million, respectively, and costs associated with exiting the commodity concentrate product line and the Companys realignment of its business operations in the wine segment, including the write down of commodity concentrate inventory of $16.8 million and restructuring and related charges of $31.1 million, partially offset by the relief from certain excise taxes, duty and other costs incurred in prior years of $10.4 million. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $2.3 million and $3.6 million for Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively, decreased to $137.7 million for Fiscal 2005 from $144.7 million for Fiscal 2004, a decrease of $7.0 million, or (5%). The decrease resulted from lower average borrowing rates in Fiscal 2005 as well as lower average borrowings. The reduction in average borrowing rates was attributed in part to the replacement of $200.0 million of higher fixed rate subordinated note debt with lower variable rate revolver debt. The reduction in average borrowings resulted from the use of proceeds from the Companys equity offerings in July 2003 to pay down debt incurred to partially finance the Hardy Acquisition combined with on going principal payments on long term debt, partially offset by additional borrowings in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 to finance the Robert Mondavi acquisition. 38 Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate remained the same at 36.0% for Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004. Net Income As a result of the above factors, net income increased to $276.5 million for Fiscal 2005 from $220.4 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $56.1 million, or 25.4%. Financial Liquidity and Capital Resources General The Companys principal use of cash in its operating activities is for purchasing and carrying inventories and carrying seasonal accounts receivable. The Companys primary source of liquidity has historically been cash flow from operations, except during annual grape harvests when the Company has relied on short term borrowings. In the United States, the annual grape crush normally begins in August and runs through October. In Australia, the annual grape crush normally begins in February and runs through May. The Company generally begins taking delivery of grapes at the beginning of the crush season with payments for such grapes beginning to come due one month later. The Companys short term borrowings to support such purchases generally reach their highest levels one to two months after the crush season has ended. Historically, the Company has used cash flow from operating activities to repay its short term borrowings and fund capital expenditures. The Company will continue to use its short term borrowings to support its working capital requirements. The Company believes that cash provided by operating activities and its financing activities, primarily short term borrowings, will provide adequate resources to satisfy its working capital, scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, preferred stock dividend payment requirements, and anticipated capital expenditure requirements for both its short term and long term capital needs. In addition, the Company intends to utilize cash provided by operating activities and financing activities to repurchase shares under the Companys share repurchase program (see below) beginning in Fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2006 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2006 was $436.0 million, which resulted from $325.3 million of net income, plus $167.2 million of net non cash items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Income and $48.8 million of cash proceeds credited to accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) within the Consolidated Balance Sheet, less $105.2 million representing the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities. The net non cash items consisted primarily of depreciation of property, plant and equipment and deferred tax provision. The cash proceeds credited to AOCI consisted of $30.3 million in proceeds from the unwinding of certain interest rate swaps (see discussion below under Senior Credit Facilities) and $18.5 million in proceeds from the early termination of certain foreign currency derivative instruments related to the Companys change in its structure of certain of its cash flow hedges of forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions. As the forecasted transactions are still probable, this amount was recorded to AOCI and will be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the same periods in which the original hedged items are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The net change in operating assets and liabilities resulted primarily from an increase in inventories and decreases in accrued advertising and promotion and restructuring accruals, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable. 39 Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for Fiscal 2006 was $15.6 million, which resulted primarily from $132.5 million of capital expenditures and net cash paid of $45.9 million for purchases of businesses, partially offset by $173.5 million of net proceeds from sales of assets, equity method investment, and businesses, primarily attributable to sales of non strategic Robert Mondavi assets. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for Fiscal 2006 was $426.2 million resulting primarily from principal payments of long term debt of $527.6 million partially offset by net proceeds of $63.8 million from notes payable and $31.5 million of proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Fiscal 2005 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2005 was $320.7 million, which resulted from $276.5 million of net income, plus $176.0 million of net non cash items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Income, less $131.7 million representing the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities. The net non cash items consisted primarily of depreciation of property, plant and equipment, deferred tax provision and the non cash portion of loss on extinguishment of debt. The net change in operating assets and liabilities resulted primarily from increases in accounts receivable and inventories. The increases in accounts receivable and inventories are primarily a result of the Companys growth in Fiscal 2005. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for Fiscal 2005 was $1,222.9 million, which resulted primarily from net cash paid of $1,052.5 million for purchases of businesses and $119.7 million of capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for Fiscal 2005 was $884.2 million resulting primarily from proceeds from issuance of long term debt of $2,400.0 million, partially offset by principal payments of long term debt of $1,488.7 million. Share Repurchase Program During June 1998, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100.0 million of its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Under this program, the Company had purchased a total of 8,150,688 shares of Class A Common Stock at an aggregate cost of $44.9 million, or at an average cost of $5.51 per share. Of this total amount, no shares were repurchased during Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 or Fiscal 2004. During February 2006, the Companys Board of Directors replenished the June 1998 authorization to repurchase up to $100.0 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. The repurchase of shares of common stock will be accomplished, from time to time, in managements discretion and depending upon market conditions, through open market or privately negotiated transactions. The Company may finance such repurchases through cash generated from operations or through the senior credit facility. The repurchased shares will become treasury shares. As of May 1, 2006, no additional shares were repurchased under the amended program. 40 Debt Total debt outstanding as of February 28, 2006, amounted to $2,809.7 million, a decrease of $479.5 million from February 28, 2005. The ratio of total debt to total capitalization decreased to 48.6% as of February 28, 2006, from 54.2% as of February 28, 2005, primarily due to the paydown of term debt resulting primarily from net cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from sales of non strategic assets associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, net of capital expenditures. In connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor, the Company expects to finance the purchase price and repayment of Vincors outstanding indebtedness with borrowings under an amended and restated senior credit facility. If the acquisition of Vincor is completed in early June 2006 as currently expected, the Companys ratio of total debt to total capitalization will be significantly impacted. Senior Credit Facility 2004 Credit Agreement In connection with the acquisition of Robert Mondavi, on December 22, 2004, the Company and its U.S. subsidiaries (excluding certain inactive subsidiaries), together with certain of its subsidiaries organized in foreign jurisdictions, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a lender and administrative agent, and certain other agents, lenders, and financial institutions entered into a new credit agreement (the 2004 Credit Agreement). The 2004 Credit Agreement provides for aggregate credit facilities of $2.9 billion (subject to increase as therein provided to $3.2 billion), consisting of a $600.0 million tranche A term loan facility due in November 2010, a $1.8 billion tranche B term loan facility due in November 2011, and a $500.0 million revolving credit facility (including a sub facility for letters of credit of up to $60.0 million) which terminates in December 2010. Proceeds of the 2004 Credit Agreement were used to pay off the Companys obligations under its prior senior credit facility, to fund the cash consideration payable in connection with its acquisition of Robert Mondavi, and to pay certain obligations of Robert Mondavi, including indebtedness outstanding under its bank facility and unsecured notes of $355.4 million. The Company uses its revolving credit facility under the 2004 Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes, including working capital, on an as needed basis. The tranche A term loan facility and the tranche B term loan facility were fully drawn on December 22, 2004. As of February 28, 2006, the required principal repayments of the tranche A term loan and the tranche B term loan for each of the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter are as follows: Tranche A Term Loan Tranche B Term Loan Total (in thousands) 2007 $ $ $ 2008 45,182 45,182 2009 103,273 14,563 117,836 2010 109,727 14,563 124,290 2011 96,818 353,160 449,978 Thereafter 1,026,714 1,026,714 $ 355,000 $ 1,409,000 $ 1,764,000 The rate of interest on borrowings under the 2004 Credit Agreement, at the Companys option, is a function of LIBOR plus a margin, the federal funds rate plus a margin, or the prime rate plus a margin. The margin is adjustable based upon the Companys debt ratio (as defined in the 2004 Credit Agreement) and, with respect to LIBOR borrowings, ranges between 1.00% and 1.75%. As of February 28, 2006, the LIBOR margin for the revolving credit facility and the tranche A term loan facility is 1.25%, while the LIBOR margin on the tranche B term loan facility is 1.50%. 41 The Companys obligations are guaranteed by its U.S. subsidiaries (excluding certain inactive subsidiaries) and by certain of its foreign subsidiaries. These obligations are also secured by a pledge of (i) 100% of the ownership interests in most of the Companys U.S. subsidiaries and (ii) 65% of the voting capital stock of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to customary lending covenants including those restricting additional liens, the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including guarantees of indebtedness), the sale of assets, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, the disposition and acquisition of property and the making of certain investments, in each case subject to numerous baskets, exceptions and thresholds. The financial covenants are limited to maximum total debt and senior debt coverage ratios and minimum fixed charges and interest coverage ratios. As of February 28, 2006, the Company is in compliance with all of its covenants under its 2004 Credit Agreement. As of February 28, 2006, under the 2004 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding tranche A term loans of $355.0 million bearing a weighted average interest rate of 5.8%, tranche B term loans of $1,409.0 million bearing a weighted average interest rate of 5.9%, revolving loans of $54.5 million bearing a weighted average interest rate of 5.7%, undrawn revolving letters of credit of $35.1 million, and $410.4 million in revolving loans available to be drawn. In March 2005, the Company replaced its then outstanding five year interest rate swap agreements with new five year delayed start interest rate swap agreements effective March 1, 2006, which are outstanding as of February 28, 2006. These delayed start interest rate swap agreements extended the original hedged period through fiscal 2010. The swap agreements fixed LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% over the five year term. The Company received $30.3 million in proceeds from the unwinding of the original swaps. This amount will be reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) ratably into earnings in the same period in which the original hedged item is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income. For Fiscal 2006, the Company reclassified $3.6 million from AOCI to Interest Expense, net in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income. This non cash operating activity is included in the Other, net line in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Foreign Subsidiary Facilities The Company has additional credit arrangements available totaling $188.9 million as of February 28, 2006. These arrangements support the financing needs of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiary operations. Interest rates and other terms of these borrowings vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions. As of February 28, 2006, amounts outstanding under the subsidiary credit arrangements were $52.3 million. Senior Notes As of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 5/8% Senior Notes due August 2006 (the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes are currently redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company. As of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding 1.0 million ($1.8 million) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series B Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series B Senior Notes). In addition, as of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding 154.0 million ($270.1 million, net of $0.3 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series C Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series C Senior Notes). The Sterling Series B Senior Notes and Sterling Series C Senior Notes are currently redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company. 42 Also, as of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8% Senior Notes due February 2008 (the February 2001 Senior Notes). The February 2001 Senior Notes are currently redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company. Senior Subordinated Notes As of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due January 2012 (the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes). The January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time on or after January 15, 2007. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table sets forth information about the Companys long term contractual obligations outstanding at February 28, 2006. It brings together data for easy reference from the consolidated balance sheet and from individual notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Notes 8, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 14 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for detailed discussion of items noted in the following table. PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years After 5 years (in thousands) Contractual obligations Notes payable to banks $ 79,881 $ 79,881 $ $ $ Long term debt (excluding unamortized discount) 2,730,188 214,066 378,234 856,085 1,281,803 Operating leases 457,377 65,586 97,018 71,491 223,282 Other long term liabilities 312,699 86,154 69,414 46,896 110,235 Unconditional purchase obligations(1) 2,105,767 414,060 627,630 389,789 674,288 Total contractual obligations $ 5,685,912 $ 859,747 $ 1,172,296 $ 1,364,261 $ 2,289,608 (1) Total unconditional purchase obligations consist of $26.1 million for contracts to purchase various spirits over the next seven fiscal years, $1,920.9 million for contracts to purchase grapes over the next sixteen fiscal years, $82.5 million for contracts to purchase bulk wine over the next eight fiscal years and $76.3 million for processing contracts over the next nine fiscal years. See Note 14 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of these items. Equity Offerings During July 2003, the Company completed a public offering of 19,600,000 shares of its Class A Common Stock resulting in net proceeds to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $261.2 million. In addition, the Company also completed a public offering of 170,500 shares of its 5.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (Preferred Stock) resulting in net proceeds to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $164.9 million. The Class A Common Stock offering and the Preferred Stock offering are referred to together as the 2003 Equity Offerings. The majority of the net proceeds from the 2003 Equity Offerings were used to repay the Companys then existing bridge loans that were incurred to partially finance the Hardy Acquisition. The remaining proceeds were used to repay term loan borrowings under the Companys then existing senior credit facility. 43 Capital Expenditures During Fiscal 2006, the Company incurred $132.5 million for capital expenditures. The Company plans to spend approximately $155 million for capital expenditures in Fiscal 2007, excluding any amount the Company may incur after the completion of the pending acquisition of Vincor. In addition, the Company continues to consider the purchase, lease and development of vineyards and may incur additional expenditures for vineyards if opportunities become available. See Business Sources and Availability of Raw Materials under Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Management reviews the capital expenditure program periodically and modifies it as required to meet current business needs. Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices The Companys results of operations and financial condition have not been significantly affected by inflation and changing prices. The Company has been able, subject to normal competitive conditions, to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices and identifying on going cost savings initiatives. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will continue to be able to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices. Critical Accounting Policies The Companys significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. However, certain of the Companys accounting policies are particularly important to the portrayal of the Companys financial position and results of operations and require the application of significant judgment by the Companys management; as a result they are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. In applying those policies, the Companys management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. Those estimates are based on the Companys historical experience, the Companys observance of trends in the industry, information provided by the Companys customers and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. On an ongoing basis, the Company reviews its estimates to ensure that they appropriately reflect changes in the Companys business. The Companys critical accounting policies include: Accounting for promotional activities. Sales reflect reductions attributable to consideration given to customers in various customer incentive programs, including pricing discounts on single transactions, volume discounts, promotional and advertising allowances, coupons, and rebates. Certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the cost of those programs. The accrued liability for these programs is determined through analysis of programs offered, historical trends, expectations regarding customer and consumer participation, sales and payment trends, and experience with payment patterns associated with similar programs that had been previously offered. If assumptions included in the Companys estimates were to change or market conditions were to change, then material incremental reductions to revenue could be required, which would have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. Promotional costs were $501.9 million, $390.9 million and $336.4 million for Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively. 44 Inventory valuation. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being determined on the first in, first out method. The Company assesses the valuation of its inventories and reduces the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of the Companys forecasted usage to their estimated net realizable value. The Company estimates the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements. Reductions to the carrying value of inventories are recorded in cost of product sold. If the future demand for the Companys products is less favorable than the Companys forecasts, then the value of the inventories may be required to be reduced, which could result in material additional expense to the Company and have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. Accounting for business combinations. The acquisition of businesses is an important element of the Companys strategy. Under the purchase method, the Company is required to record the net assets acquired at the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The determination of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Companys financial statements. For example, the Companys acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets; the value and estimated life of those assets may affect the amount of future period amortization expense for intangible assets with finite lives as well as possible impairment charges that may be incurred. Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Intangible assets with indefinite lives consist primarily of trademarks as well as agency relationships. The Company is required to analyze its goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis as well as when events and circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Certain factors that may occur and indicate that an impairment exists include, but are not limited to, operating results that are lower than expected and adverse industry or market economic trends. The impairment testing requires management to estimate the fair value of the assets or reporting unit and record an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. The estimate of fair value of the assets is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows. The estimate of fair value of the reporting unit is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows supplemented by the market approach. In estimating the fair value, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as future cash flows, future revenues, future earnings and other factors. The assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are generally consistent with the past performance of each reporting unit and other intangible assets and are also consistent with the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. The recording of any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. 45 Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151 (SFAS No. 151), Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43 (ARB No. 43), Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing, to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). SFAS No. 151 requires that those items be recognized as current period charges. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. As required, the Company adopted SFAS No. 151 on March 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS No. 123(R)), Share Based Payment. SFAS No. 123(R) replaces Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (SFAS No. 123), Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (APB Opinion No. 25), Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS No. 123(R) requires the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. In addition, SFAS No. 123(R) establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share based payment arrangements and requires all entities to apply a grant date fair value based measurement method in accounting for share based payment transactions. SFAS No. 123(R) also amends Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95 (SFAS No. 95), Statement of Cash Flows, to require that excess tax benefits be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid. SFAS No. 123(R) applies to all awards granted, modified, repurchased, or cancelled after the required effective date (see below). In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB No. 107), Share Based Payment, to express the views of the staff regarding the interaction between SFAS No. 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations and to provide the staffs views regarding the valuation of share based payment arrangements for public companies. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) as of March 1, 2006, using the modified prospective application. This application requires compensation cost to be recognized on or after the required effective date for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered based on the grant date fair value of those awards as calculated under SFAS No. 123 for either recognition or pro forma disclosures. As of March 1, 2006, the unrecognized compensation expense associated with the remaining portion of the unvested outstanding awards is not material. In addition, the Company estimates stock based compensation expense for options to be granted for the year ended February 28, 2007, to approximate $8.5 million, excluding any options granted or which may be granted in connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor. 46 In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154 (SFAS No. 154), Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3. SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle and requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 requires that a change in depreciation, amortization, or depletion method for long lived, nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change of estimate effected by a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 also carries forward without change the guidance in APB Opinion No. 20 with respect to accounting for changes in accounting estimates, changes in the reporting unit and correction of an error in previously issued financial statements. As required, the Company adopted SFAS No. 154 on March 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 154 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 47 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company, as a result of its global operating, acquisition and financing activities, is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To manage the volatility relating to these risks, the Company periodically purchases and or sells derivative instruments including foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate swap agreements. The Company uses derivative instruments solely to reduce the financial impact of these risks and does not use derivative instruments for trading purposes. Foreign currency forward contracts are or may be used to hedge existing foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, forecasted foreign currency denominated sales both to third parties as well as intercompany sales, intercompany principal and interest payments, and in connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the U.S. As of February 28, 2006, the Company had exposures to foreign currency risk primarily related to the Australian dollar, euro, New Zealand dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and Mexican peso. As of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange derivative instruments with a notional value of $1,254.7 million and $601.6 million, respectively. Approximately 65% of the Companys total exposures were hedged as of February 28, 2006. Using a sensitivity analysis based on estimated fair value of open contracts using forward rates, if the contract base currency had been 10% weaker as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the fair value of open foreign exchange contracts would have been decreased by $77.5 million and $65.2 million, respectively. Losses or gains from the revaluation or settlement of the related underlying positions would substantially offset such gains or losses on the derivative instruments. Subsequent to February 28, 2006, the Company entered into a foreign currency forward contract in connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor to fix the U.S. dollar cost of the acquisition and the payment of certain outstanding indebtedness. The foreign currency forward contract is for the purchase of Cdn$1.4 billion at a rate of Cdn$1.149 to U.S.$1.00. The Company will be required to mark the foreign currency forward contract to market with resulting gains or losses to be recorded in future results of operations. The Company currently expects to complete the acquisition of Vincor in early June 2006. The fair value of fixed rate debt is subject to interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk. The estimated fair value of the Companys total fixed rate debt, including current maturities, was $1,010.5 million and $1,080.2 million as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, respectively. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of fixed interest rate long term debt by $26.9 million and $37.0 million, respectively. As of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the Company had outstanding five year delayed start interest rate swap agreements and five year interest rate swap agreements, respectively, to minimize interest rate volatility. The swap agreements fix LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% over the five year term. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, would have increased the fair value of the interest rate swaps by $43.8 million and $53.1 million, respectively. In addition to the $1,010.5 million and $1,080.2 million estimated fair value of fixed rate debt outstanding as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, respectively, the Company also had variable rate debt outstanding (primarily LIBOR based) as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, of $1,856.1 million and $2,310.6 million, respectively. Using a sensitivity analysis based on a hypothetical 1% increase in prevailing interest rates over a 12 month period, the approximate increase in cash required for interest as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, is $18.6 million and $23.1 million, respectively. 48 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview The Company is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, imported beer and spirits categories. The Company has the largest wine business in the world and is the largest multi category supplier of beverage alcohol in the United States (U.S.); a leading producer and exporter of wine from Australia and New Zealand; and both a major producer and independent drinks wholesaler in the United Kingdom (U.K.). The Company reports its operating results in three segments: Constellation Wines (branded wines, and U.K. wholesale and other), Constellation Beers and Spirits (imported beers and distilled spirits) and Corporate Operations and Other. Amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment consist of general corporate administration and finance expenses. These amounts include costs of executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global strategic sourcing. Any costs incurred at the corporate office that are applicable to the segments are allocated to the appropriate segment. The amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment are general costs that are applicable to the consolidated group and are therefore not allocated to the other reportable segments. All costs reported within the Corporate Operations and Other segment are not included in the chief operating decision makers evaluation of the operating income performance of the other operating segments. The business segments reflect how the Companys operations are being managed, how operating performance within the Company is being evaluated by senior management and the structure of its internal financial reporting. In addition, the Company excludes acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual items that affect comparability from its definition of operating income for segment purposes. The Companys business strategy is to remain focused across the beverage alcohol industry by offering a broad range of products in each of the Companys three major categories: wine, imported beer and spirits. The Company intends to keep its portfolio positioned for superior top line growth while maximizing the profitability of its brands. In addition, the Company seeks to increase its relative importance to key customers in major markets by increasing its share of their overall purchasing, which is increasingly important in a consolidating industry. The Companys strategy of breadth across categories and geographies is designed to deliver long term profitable growth. This strategy allows the Company more investment choices, provides flexibility to address changing market conditions and creates stronger routes to market. Marketing, sales and distribution of the Companys products, particularly the Constellation Wines segments products, are managed on a geographic basis in order to fully leverage leading market positions within each geographic market. Market dynamics and consumer trends vary significantly across the Companys three core geographic markets North America (primarily the U.S.), Europe (primarily the U.K.) and Australasia (primarily Australia and New Zealand). Within the U.S. market, the Company offers a wide range of beverage alcohol products across the Constellation Wines segment and the Constellation Beers and Spirits segment. In Europe, the Company leverages its position as the largest wine supplier in the U.K. In addition, the Company leverages its U.K. wholesale business as a strategic route to market for its imported wine portfolio and as a key supplier of a full range of beverage alcohol products primarily to large national on premise accounts. Within Australasia, where consumer trends favor domestic wine products, the Company leverages its position as one of the largest wine producers in Australia. 25 The Company remains committed to its long term financial model of growing sales (both through acquisitions and organically), expanding margins and increasing cash flow to achieve superior earnings per share growth and improve return on invested capital. The environment for the Companys products is competitive in each of the Companys key geographic markets, due, in part, to industry and retail consolidation. Specifically, in the U.K. and Australia, the market for branded wine continues to be challenging; furthermore, retailer consolidation is contributing to increased competition and promotional activities among suppliers. Competition in the U.S. beers and spirits markets is normally intense, with domestic and imported beer producers increasing brand spending in an effort to gain market share. Additionally, the supply of certain raw materials, particularly grapes, as well as consumer demand, can affect the overall competitive environment. Two years of lighter than expected California grape harvests in calendar 2004 and 2003, combined with a reduction in wine grape acreage in California, brought the U.S. grape supply more into balance with demand during calendar 2005. This led to an overall firming of the pricing of wine grape varietals from California. The calendar 2005 California grape harvest was substantially larger than the prior year; however, following two years of lighter harvests, the Company does not currently expect the balance between supply and demand to change significantly. Two years of record Australian grape harvests have contributed to an oversupply of Australian grapes, particularly for certain red varietals. This has led to an overall reduction in grape costs for these varietals, which may affect markets for Australian wines around the world. For the year ended February 28, 2006 (Fiscal 2006), the Companys results of operations benefited from the inclusion of an additional ten months of operations of Robert Mondavi (as defined below). The Companys net sales increased 13% over the year ended February 28, 2005 (Fiscal 2005), primarily from increases in branded wine net sales and imported beer net sales. Operating income increased 17% over the comparable prior year period primarily due to the favorable sales mix shift to higher margin wine brands acquired in the Robert Mondavi acquisition partially offset by increased acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual costs (see below under Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Operating Income discussion). Net income increased 18% over the comparable prior year period as a result of the above factors combined with a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by increased interest expense. The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting (i) consolidated results of operations of the Company for Fiscal 2006 compared to Fiscal 2005, and Fiscal 2005 compared to the year ended February 29, 2004 (Fiscal 2004), and (ii) financial liquidity and capital resources for Fiscal 2006. This discussion and analysis also identifies certain acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and net unusual costs expected to affect consolidated results of operations of the Company for the year ending February 28, 2007 (Fiscal 2007). This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included herein. 26 Recent Developments Pending Acquisition of Vincor On April 2, 2006, the Company entered into an arrangement agreement (the Arrangement Agreement) with Vincor International Inc. (Vincor) pursuant to which, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, the Company will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Vincor. Vincor is the worlds eighth largest producer and distributor of wine and related products by revenue based in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, and is Canadas largest producer and marketer of wine. Vincor is also one of the largest wine importers, marketers and distributors in the U.K. In connection with the production of its products, Vincor owns, operates and has interests in certain wineries and controls certain vineyards. Vincor produces, markets and sells premium, super premium and fine wines from Canada, California, Washington State, Western Australia and New Zealand. Some of Vincors well known premium brands include Inniskillin, Jackson Triggs, Sumac Ridge, Hawthorne Mountain, R.H. Phillips, Toasted Head, Hogue, Kim Crawford and Kumala. The pending acquisition of Vincor supports the Companys strategy of strengthening the breadth of its portfolio across price segments and geographic markets to capitalize on the overall growth in the wine industry. In addition to complementing the Companys current operations in the U.S., U.K., Australia and New Zealand, the acquisition of Vincor would increase the Companys global presence by adding Canada as another core geographic market. In addition, the acquisition of Vincor would make the Company the largest wine company in Canada and would strengthen the Companys position as the largest wine company in the world and the largest premium wine company in the U.S. The Arrangement Agreement provides for Vincor shareholders to receive in cash Cdn$36.50 per common share. Total consideration to be paid in cash to the Vincor shareholders is expected to be approximately Cdn$1.2 billion. In addition, the Company expects to pay certain obligations of Vincor, including indebtedness outstanding under its bank facility and secured notes. In April 2006, the Company entered into a foreign currency forward contract in connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor to fix the U.S. dollar cost of the acquisition and the payment of certain outstanding indebtedness. The foreign currency forward contract is for the purchase of Cdn$1.4 billion at a rate of Cdn$1.149 to U.S.$1.00. The Company will be required to mark the foreign currency forward contract to market with resulting gains or losses to be recorded in future results of operations. The consideration to be paid to the shareholders and the amount needed to repay outstanding indebtedness of Vincor is expected to be financed with borrowings under an amended and restated senior credit facility. The Company currently expects to complete the acquisition of Vincor in early June 2006. If the pending acquisition is completed, the results of operations of the Vincor business would be reported in the Constellation Wines segment and would be included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company from the date of acquisition. The acquisition of Vincor would be considered significant and the Company would expect it to have a material impact on the Companys future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 27 Acquisitions in Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004 and Equity Method Investment Acquisition of Robert Mondavi On December 22, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of The Robert Mondavi Corporation (Robert Mondavi), a leading premium wine producer based in Napa, California. Through this transaction, the Company acquired various additional winery and vineyard interests, and, additionally produces, markets and sells premium, super premium and fine California wines under the Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Robert Mondavi Private Selection and Robert Mondavi Winery brand names. In the United States, Woodbridge is the leading domestic premium wine brand and Robert Mondavi Private Selection is the leading super premium wine brand. As a result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company acquired an ownership interest in Opus One, a joint venture owned equally by Robert Mondavi and Baron Philippe de Rothschild, S.A. During September 2005, the Companys president and Baroness Philippine de Rothschild announced an agreement to maintain equal ownership of Opus One. Opus One produces fine wines at its Napa Valley winery. The acquisition of Robert Mondavi supports the Companys strategy of strengthening the breadth of its portfolio across price segments to capitalize on the overall growth in the premium, super premium and fine wine categories. The Company believes that the acquired Robert Mondavi brand names have strong brand recognition globally. The vast majority of sales from these brands are generated in the United States. The Company is leveraging the Robert Mondavi brands in the United States through its selling, marketing and distribution infrastructure. The Company also intends to further expand distribution for the Robert Mondavi brands in Europe through its Constellation Europe infrastructure. Distribution of the Robert Mondavi Woodbridge brand in the U.K. market is underway and the brand has been introduced into most major U.K. retailers. The Robert Mondavi acquisition supports the Companys strategy of growth and breadth across categories and geographies, and strengthens its competitive position in certain of its core markets. The Robert Mondavi acquisition provides the Company with a greater presence in the growing premium, super premium and fine wine sectors within the United States and the ability to capitalize on the broader geographic distribution in strategic international markets. In particular, the Company believes there are growth opportunities for premium, super premium and fine wines in the United Kingdom and other new world wine markets. Total consideration paid in cash to the Robert Mondavi shareholders was $1,030.7 million. Additionally, the Company incurred direct acquisition costs of $12.0 million. The purchase price was financed with borrowings under the Companys 2004 Credit Agreement (as defined below). In accordance with the purchase method of accounting, the acquired net assets are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition. The purchase price was based primarily on the estimated future operating results of the Robert Mondavi business, including the factors described above, as well as an estimated benefit from operating cost synergies. The results of operations of the Robert Mondavi business have been reported in the Companys Constellation Wines segment since December 22, 2004. Accordingly, the Companys results of operations for Fiscal 2006 include the results of operations of the Robert Mondavi business for the entire period, whereas the results of operations for Fiscal 2005 only include the results of operations of the Robert Mondavi business from December 22, 2004, to the end of Fiscal 2005. Following the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company sold certain of the acquired vineyard properties and related assets, investments accounted for under the equity method, and winery properties and related assets. The Company realized net proceeds of $170.8 million from the sale of certain of these assets during Fiscal 2006. Sales of these assets are complete, and, since the date of acquisition through February 28, 2006, net proceeds from these asset sales total $180.7 million. No gain or loss has been recognized upon the sale of these assets. 28 Acquisition of Hardy On March 27, 2003, the Company acquired control of BRL Hardy Limited, now known as Hardy Wine Company Limited (Hardy), and on April 9, 2003, the Company completed its acquisition of all of Hardys outstanding capital stock. As a result of the acquisition of Hardy, the Company also acquired the remaining 50% ownership of Pacific Wine Partners LLC (PWP), the joint venture the Company established with Hardy in July 2001. The acquisition of Hardy along with the remaining interest in PWP is referred to together as the Hardy Acquisition. Through this acquisition, the Company acquired one of Australias largest wine producers with interests in wineries and vineyards in most of Australias major wine regions as well as New Zealand and the United States. Hardy has a comprehensive portfolio of wine products across all price points with a strong focus on premium wine production. Hardys wines are distributed worldwide through a network of marketing and sales operations, with the majority of sales generated in Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States. In October 2005, PWP was merged into another subsidiary of the Company. Total consideration paid in cash and Class A Common Stock to the Hardy shareholders was $1,137.4 million. Additionally, the Company recorded direct acquisition costs of $17.2 million. The acquisition date for accounting purposes is March 27, 2003. The Company has recorded a $1.6 million reduction in the purchase price to reflect imputed interest between the accounting acquisition date and the final payment of consideration. This charge is included as interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income for Fiscal 2004. The cash portion of the purchase price paid to the Hardy shareholders and optionholders ($1,060.2 million) was financed with $660.2 million of borrowings under the Companys then existing credit agreement and $400.0 million of borrowings under the Companys then existing bridge loan agreement. Additionally, the Company issued 6,577,826 shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock, which were valued at $77.2 million based on the simple average of the closing market price of the Companys Class A Common Stock beginning two days before and ending two days after April 4, 2003, the day the Hardy shareholders elected the form of consideration they wished to receive. The purchase price was based primarily on a discounted cash flow analysis that contemplated, among other things, the value of a broader geographic distribution in strategic international markets and a presence in the important Australian winemaking regions. The Company and Hardy have complementary businesses that share a common growth orientation and operating philosophy. The Hardy Acquisition supports the Companys strategy of growth and breadth across categories and geographies, and strengthens its competitive position in its core markets. The purchase price and resulting goodwill were primarily based on the growth opportunities of the brand portfolio of Hardy. In particular, the Company believes there are growth opportunities for Australian wines in the United Kingdom, United States and other wine markets. This acquisition supports the Companys strategy of driving long term growth and positions the Company to capitalize on the growth opportunities in new world wine markets. The results of operations of Hardy and PWP have been reported in the Companys Constellation Wines segment since March 27, 2003. Accordingly, the Companys results of operations for Fiscal 2005 include the results of operations of Hardy and PWP for the entire period, whereas the results of operations for Fiscal 2004 only include the results of operations of Hardy and PWP from March 27, 2003, to the end of Fiscal 2004. 29 Investment in Ruffino On December 3, 2004, the Company purchased a 40% interest in Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino), the well known Italian fine wine company, for $89.6 million, including direct acquisition costs of $7.5 million. As of February 1, 2005, the Constellation Wines segment began distributing Ruffinos products in the United States. The Company accounts for the investment under the equity method; accordingly, the results of operations of Ruffino from December 3, 2004, are included in the equity in earnings of equity method investees line in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income. Results of Operations Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Net Sales 2006 2005 % Increase(Decrease) Constellation Wines: Branded wine $ 2,263.4 $ 1,830.8 24% Wholesale and other 972.0 1,020.6 (5)% Constellation Wines net sales $ 3,235.4 $ 2,851.4 13% Constellation Beers and Spirits: Imported beers $ 1,043.5 $ 922.9 13% Spirits 324.5 313.3 4 % Constellation Beers and Spirits net sales $ 1,368.0 $ 1,236.2 11 % Corporate Operations and Other $ $ N/A Consolidated Net Sales $ 4,603.4 $ 4,087.6 13 % Net sales for Fiscal 2006 increased to $4,603.4 million from $4,087.6 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $515.8 million, or 13%. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in branded wine net sales of $440.1 million (on a constant currency basis) and imported beer net sales of $120.5 million, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of $35.5 million. Constellation Wines Net sales for Constellation Wines increased to $3,235.4 million for Fiscal 2006 from $2,851.4 million in Fiscal 2005, an increase of $384.0 million, or 13%. Branded wine net sales increased $432.6 million primarily from $337.5 million of net sales of the acquired Robert Mondavi brands and $43.6 million of net sales of Ruffino brands, which the Company began distributing in the U.S. on February 1, 2005, as well as a $51.5 million increase in branded wine net sales (excluding sales of Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands). The $51.5 million increase is due primarily to volume growth in the Companys branded wine net sales in the U.S. as well as new product introductions. Wholesale and other net sales decreased $48.5 million ($20.5 million on a constant currency basis) as growth in the U.K. wholesale business was more than offset by a decrease in other net sales. The decrease in other net sales is primarily due to the Companys Fiscal 2004 decision to exit the commodity concentrate business during Fiscal 2005. 30 Constellation Beers and Spirits Net sales for Constellation Beers and Spirits increased to $1,368.0 million for Fiscal 2006 from $1,236.2 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $131.8 million, or 11%. This increase resulted from increases in imported beers net sales of $120.5 million and spirits net sales of $11.3 million. The growth in imported beers net sales is primarily due to volume growth in the Companys Mexican beer portfolio. The growth in spirits net sales is attributable primarily to an increase in the Companys contract production net sales. Gross Profit The Companys gross profit increased to $1,324.6 million for Fiscal 2006 from $1,140.6 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $184.0 million, or 16%. The Constellation Wines segments gross profit increased $191.0 million primarily due to the additional gross profit of $171.7 million from the Robert Mondavi acquisition and additional gross profit from the volume growth in branded wine net sales in the U.S., partially offset by the reduced gross profit from the decrease in other net sales. The Constellation Beers and Spirits segments gross profit increased $21.0 million primarily due to volume growth in the Companys Mexican beer portfolio partially offset by higher Mexican beer product costs and transportation costs. However, in connection with certain supply arrangements, the higher Mexican beer product costs were offset by a corresponding decrease in advertising expenses resulting in no impact to operating income. In addition, unusual items, which consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, were higher by $28.1 million in Fiscal 2006 versus Fiscal 2005. This increase resulted primarily from accelerated depreciation costs associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan (as defined below) of $13.4 million and increased flow through of adverse grape cost associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $13.2 million. Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased to 28.8% for Fiscal 2006 from 27.9% for Fiscal 2005 primarily due to sales of higher margin wine brands acquired in the Robert Mondavi acquisition, partially offset by the higher unusual items and higher Mexican beer product costs and transportation costs. The Company expects transportation costs to continue to impact the Companys gross margins. However, the Company is addressing this matter by continuing its evaluation and implementation of price increases on a market by market basis. 31 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $612.4 million for Fiscal 2006 from $555.7 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $56.7 million, or 10%. The Constellation Wines segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $67.2 million primarily due to increased selling expenses, general and administrative, and advertising expenses to support the growth in the segments business, primarily due to the costs related to the brands acquired in the Robert Mondavi acquisition. In addition, general and administrative expenses were negatively impacted as a result of an adjustment associated with the segments U.K. defined benefit pension plan related to a reduction in the period over which unrecognized actuarial losses are amortized. The Constellation Beers and Spirits segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $4.6 million as increased selling and general and administrative expenses were partially offset by lower advertising expenses. The Corporate Operations and Other segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $7.0 million primarily due to costs associated with professional service fees incurred in connection with the Companys tender offer for Vincor that expired in December 2005 and increased general and administrative expenses to support the Companys growth. Lastly, there was a decrease of $22.1 million of unusual costs which consist of certain items that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. Fiscal 2006 included costs associated primarily with professional service fees incurred for due diligence in connection with the Companys evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq of $3.4 million. Fiscal 2005 costs included $31.7 million of financing costs recorded in Fiscal 2005 related to (i) the Companys redemption of its $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due March 2009 (the Senior Subordinated Notes) and (ii) the Companys new senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, partially offset by net gains of $6.1 million recorded in Fiscal 2005 on the sales of non strategic assets and the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales decreased to 13.3% for Fiscal 2006 as compared to 13.6% for Fiscal 2005 primarily due to the decrease in unusual costs. Acquisition Related Integration Costs The Company recorded $16.8 million of acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2006 in connection with the Companys decision to restructure and integrate the operations of Robert Mondavi (the Robert Mondavi Plan). Acquisition related integration costs included $5.3 million of employee related costs and $11.5 million of facilities and other one time costs. The Company recorded $9.4 million of acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2005 in connection with the Robert Mondavi Plan. The Company does not expect acquisition related integration costs in connection with the Robert Mondavi Plan to be significant for Fiscal 2007. 32 Restructuring and Related Charges The Company recorded $29.3 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal 2006 associated with the restructuring plans of the Constellation Wines segment. Restructuring and related charges resulted from (i) the further realignment of business operations as previously announced in Fiscal 2004, a component of the Fiscal 2004 Plan (as defined below under the caption Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Restructuring and Related Charges), (ii) the Robert Mondavi Plan, and (iii) costs associated with the worldwide wine reorganization announced in February 2006 (including certain personnel reductions in the U.K. during the third quarter of fiscal 2006) and the Companys program to consolidate certain west coast production processes in the U.S. (collectively, the Fiscal 2006 Plan). Restructuring and related charges recorded in connection with the Fiscal 2004 Plan included $0.7 million of employee termination benefit costs and $1.3 million of facility consolidation and relocation costs. Restructuring and related charges recorded in connection with the Robert Mondavi Plan included $1.6 million of employee termination benefit costs, $0.7 million of contract termination costs and $0.5 million of facility consolidation and relocation costs. Restructuring and related charges recorded in connection with the Fiscal 2006 Plan included $24.3 million of employee termination benefit costs and $0.2 million of facility consolidation and relocation costs. In addition, in connection with the Fiscal 2006 Plan, the Company recorded (i) $13.4 million of accelerated depreciation charges in connection with the Companys investment in new assets and reconfiguration of certain existing assets under the plan and (ii) $0.1 million of other related costs which were recorded in the cost of product sold line and the selling, general and administrative expenses line, respectively, within the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company recorded $7.6 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal 2005 associated with the Fiscal 2004 Plan and the Robert Mondavi Plan. For Fiscal 2007, the Company expects to incur total restructuring and related charges of $24.8 million associated primarily with the Fiscal 2006 Plan and the Robert Mondavi Plan. In addition, the Company expects to incur total accelerated depreciation charges of $7.0 million associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan. Lastly, the Company expects to incur total other related costs of $8.3 million associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan. Operating Income The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Operating Income (Loss) 2006 2005 % Increase Constellation Wines $ 530.4 $ 406.6 30% Constellation Beers and Spirits 292.6 276.1 6% Corporate Operations and Other (63.0 ) (56.0 ) 13% Total Reportable Segments 760.0 626.7 21% Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring and Related Charges and Net Unusual Costs (93.9 ) (58.8 ) 60% Consolidated Operating Income $ 666.1 $ 567.9 17% 33 As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased to $666.1 million for Fiscal 2006 from $567.9 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $98.2 million, or 17%. Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual costs of $93.9 million for Fiscal 2006 consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs represent restructuring and related charges of $29.3 million associated primarily with the Fiscal 2006 Plan and the Robert Mondavi Plan; the flow through of adverse grape cost and acquisition related integration costs associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $23.0 million and $16.8 million, respectively; accelerated depreciation costs of $13.4 million associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan; the flow through of inventory step up associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $7.9 million; costs associated with professional service fees incurred for due diligence in connection with the Companys evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq of $3.4 million; and other costs associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan of $0.1 million. Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual costs of $58.8 million for Fiscal 2005 represent financing costs associated with the redemption of the Companys Senior Subordinated Notes and the Companys new senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $31.7 million; adverse grape cost and acquisition related integration costs associated with the Companys acquisition of Robert Mondavi of $9.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively; restructuring and related charges of $7.6 million in the wine segment associated with the Companys realignment of its business operations and the Robert Mondavi acquisition; and the flow through of inventory step up associated with the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions of $6.4 million; partially offset by a net gain on the sale of non strategic assets of $3.1 million and a gain related to the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture of $3.0 million. Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees The Companys equity in earnings of equity method investees decreased to $0.8 million in Fiscal 2006 from $1.8 million in Fiscal 2005, a decrease of $0.9 million due primarily to a $5.0 million loss from the Companys investment in Ruffino, partially offset by an increase in earnings of $4.1 million associated primarily with the Companys investment in Opus One as a result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition. The $5.0 million loss from the Companys investment in Ruffino is due primarily to the write down of certain pre acquisition Ruffino inventories. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $4.2 million and $2.3 million for Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005, respectively, increased to $189.7 million for Fiscal 2006 from $137.7 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $52.0 million, or 38%. The increase resulted primarily from higher average borrowings in Fiscal 2006 primarily due to the Robert Mondavi acquisition and the investment in Ruffino in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate was 31.8% for Fiscal 2006 and 36.0% for Fiscal 2005, a decrease of 4.2%. This decrease was primarily due to a non cash reduction in the Companys provision for income taxes of $16.2 million, or 3.4%, as a result of adjustments to income tax accruals in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations plus the income tax benefit the Company recorded under the repatriation provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 in connection with distributions of certain foreign earnings. The Company expects the effective tax rate for Fiscal 2007 to be approximately 36.5%, which is slightly higher than historical levels, as an increasing percentage of the Companys earnings are coming from higher tax jurisdictions. 34 Net Income As a result of the above factors, net income increased to $325.3 million for Fiscal 2006 from $276.5 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $48.8 million, or 18%. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Net Sales 2005 2004 % Increase(Decrease) Constellation Wines: Branded wine $ 1,830.8 $ 1,549.7 18% Wholesale and other 1,020.6 846.3 21 % Constellation Wines net sales $ 2,851.4 $ 2,396.0 19 % Constellation Beers and Spirits: Imported beers $ 922.9 $ 862.6 7% Spirits 313.3 284.6 10 % Constellation Beers and Spirits net sales $ 1,236.2 $ 1,147.2 8 % Corporate Operations and Other $ $ N/A Unusual gain $ $ 9.2 (100.0)% Consolidated Net Sales $ 4,087.6 $ 3,552.4 15 % Net sales for Fiscal 2005 increased to $4,087.6 million from $3,552.4 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $535.2 million, or 15%. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in branded wine net sales of $217.8 million (on a constant currency basis), including $84.2 million of net sales of the acquired Robert Mondavi brands and $45.7 million of net sales of the acquired Hardy brands; an increase in U.K. wholesale net sales of $84.1 million (on a constant currency basis); and an increase in imported beer net sales of $60.3 million. In addition, net sales benefited from a favorable foreign currency impact of $155.5 million. Constellation Wines Net sales for Constellation Wines increased to $2,851.4 million for Fiscal 2005 from $2,396.0 million in Fiscal 2004, an increase of $455.4 million, or 19%. Branded wine net sales increased $281.1 million. This increase resulted from increased branded wine net sales in the U.S., Europe and Australasia of $217.8 million (on a constant currency basis), including $84.2 million of net sales of the acquired Robert Mondavi brands and an additional one month of net sales of $45.7 million of the acquired Hardy brands, completed in March 2003, and a favorable foreign currency impact of $63.3 million. The increases in branded wine net sales in the U.S., Europe and Australasia are primarily due to volume growth as the Company continues to benefit from increased distribution and greater consumer demand for premium wines. Wholesale and other net sales increased $174.3 million primarily due to growth in the U.K. wholesale business of $84.1 million (on a constant currency basis) and a favorable foreign currency impact of $92.2 million. The net sales increase in the U.K. wholesale business on a constant currency basis is primarily due to the addition of new national accounts in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and increased sales in existing accounts during Fiscal 2005. 35 Constellation Beers and Spirits Net sales for Constellation Beers and Spirits increased to $1,236.2 million for Fiscal 2005 from $1,147.2 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $89.0 million, or 8%. This increase resulted from a $60.3 million increase in imported beer net sales and an increase in spirits net sales of $28.7 million. The growth in imported beer sales is primarily due to a price increase on the Companys Mexican beer portfolio, which was introduced in January 2004. The growth in spirits net sales is attributable to increases in both the Companys contract production net sales as well as volume growth in branded net sales. Gross Profit The Companys gross profit increased to $1,140.6 million for Fiscal 2005 from $975.8 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $164.8 million, or 17%. The Constellation Wines segments gross profit increased $122.6 million primarily due to the additional two months of sales of products acquired in the Robert Mondavi acquisition, volume growth in the U.S. branded wine net sales and a favorable foreign currency impact. The Constellation Beers and Spirits segments gross profit increased $30.6 million primarily due to the increase in imported beer net sales and volume growth in the segments spirits portfolio. In addition, unusual items, which consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, were lower by $11.6 million in Fiscal 2005 versus Fiscal 2004. This decrease resulted from a $16.8 million write down of commodity concentrate inventory in Fiscal 2004 in connection with the Companys decision to exit the commodity concentrate product line in the U.S. (see additional discussion under Restructuring and Related Charges below) and reduced flow through of inventory step up associated with the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions of $16.0 million, partially offset by the relief from certain excise tax, duty and other costs incurred in prior years of $11.5 million, which was recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, and the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $9.8 million in Fiscal 2005. Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased to 27.9% for Fiscal 2005 from 27.5% for Fiscal 2004 primarily due to the lower unusual items. 36 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $555.7 million for Fiscal 2005 from $457.3 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $98.4 million, or 22%. The Constellation Wines segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $64.7 million primarily due to increased selling and advertising expenses as the Company continues to invest behind specific wine brands to drive broader distribution and additional selling, general and administrative expenses from the addition of the Robert Mondavi business. The Constellation Beers and Spirits segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $7.1 million primarily due to increased imported beer and spirits selling expenses to support the growth across this segments businesses. The Corporate Operations and Other segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased $13.7 million primarily due to increased general and administrative expenses to support the Companys growth and costs associated with higher professional services fees, including costs incurred in connection with compliance activities associated with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Lastly, there was an increase of $12.9 million of unusual costs which consist of certain items that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. This increase includes $31.7 million of financing costs recorded in Fiscal 2005 related to (i) the Companys redemption of its Senior Subordinated Notes and (ii) the Companys new senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition as compared to $11.6 million of financing costs recorded in Fiscal 2004 in connection with the Hardy Acquisition. Partially offsetting the $20.1 million increase in financing costs were net gains recorded in Fiscal 2005 on the sales of non strategic assets and the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales increased to 13.6% for Fiscal 2005 as compared to 12.9% for Fiscal 2004 primarily due to the growth in the Corporate Operations and Other segments general and administrative expenses and the increased unusual costs described above. Acquisition Related Integration Costs The Company recorded $9.4 million of acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2005 associated with the Robert Mondavi Plan. Acquisition related integration costs included $4.9 million of employee related costs and $4.5 million of facilities and other one time costs. Restructuring and Related Charges The Company recorded $7.6 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal 2005 associated with the restructuring plans of the Constellation Wines segment. Restructuring and related charges resulted from (i) the further realignment of business operations as previously announced in Fiscal 2004, (ii) the Companys decision in Fiscal 2004 to exit the commodity concentrate product line in the U.S. (collectively, the Fiscal 2004 Plan), and (iii) the Robert Mondavi Plan. Restructuring and related charges included $3.8 million of employee termination benefit costs (net of reversal of prior accruals of $0.2 million), $1.5 million of contract termination costs, $1.0 million of facility consolidation and relocation costs, and other related charges of $1.3 million. The Company recorded $31.1 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal 2004 associated with the Fiscal 2004 Plan. In total, the Company recorded $47.9 million of costs for Fiscal 2004 allocated between cost of product sold and restructuring and related charges associated with the Fiscal 2004 Plan. 37 Operating Income The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Operating Income (Loss) 2005 2004 % Increase/ (Decrease) Constellation Wines $ 406.6 $ 348.1 17% Constellation Beers and Spirits 276.1 252.5 9 % Corporate Operations and Other (56.0 ) (41.7 ) 34 % Total Reportable Segments 626.7 558.9 12 % Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring and Related Charges and Net Unusual Costs (58.8 ) (71.5 ) (18)% Consolidated Operating Income $ 567.9 $ 487.4 17% As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased to $567.9 million for Fiscal 2005 from $487.4 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $80.5 million, or 17%. Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and net unusual costs of $58.8 million for Fiscal 2005 consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs represent financing costs associated with the redemption of the Companys Senior Subordinated Notes and the Companys new senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $31.7 million, adverse grape cost and acquisition related integration costs associated with the Companys acquisition of Robert Mondavi of $9.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively, restructuring and related charges of $7.6 million in the wine segment associated with the Companys realignment of its business operations and the Robert Mondavi acquisition, and the flow through of inventory step up associated with the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions of $6.4 million, partially offset by a net gain on the sale of non strategic assets of $3.1 million and a gain related to the receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture of $3.0 million. Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring and related charges and net unusual costs of $71.6 million for Fiscal 2004 represent the flow through of inventory step up and the amortization of deferred financing costs associated with the Hardy Acquisition of $22.5 million and $11.6 million, respectively, and costs associated with exiting the commodity concentrate product line and the Companys realignment of its business operations in the wine segment, including the write down of commodity concentrate inventory of $16.8 million and restructuring and related charges of $31.1 million, partially offset by the relief from certain excise taxes, duty and other costs incurred in prior years of $10.4 million. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $2.3 million and $3.6 million for Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively, decreased to $137.7 million for Fiscal 2005 from $144.7 million for Fiscal 2004, a decrease of $7.0 million, or (5%). The decrease resulted from lower average borrowing rates in Fiscal 2005 as well as lower average borrowings. The reduction in average borrowing rates was attributed in part to the replacement of $200.0 million of higher fixed rate subordinated note debt with lower variable rate revolver debt. The reduction in average borrowings resulted from the use of proceeds from the Companys equity offerings in July 2003 to pay down debt incurred to partially finance the Hardy Acquisition combined with on going principal payments on long term debt, partially offset by additional borrowings in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 to finance the Robert Mondavi acquisition. 38 Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate remained the same at 36.0% for Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004. Net Income As a result of the above factors, net income increased to $276.5 million for Fiscal 2005 from $220.4 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $56.1 million, or 25.4%. Financial Liquidity and Capital Resources General The Companys principal use of cash in its operating activities is for purchasing and carrying inventories and carrying seasonal accounts receivable. The Companys primary source of liquidity has historically been cash flow from operations, except during annual grape harvests when the Company has relied on short term borrowings. In the United States, the annual grape crush normally begins in August and runs through October. In Australia, the annual grape crush normally begins in February and runs through May. The Company generally begins taking delivery of grapes at the beginning of the crush season with payments for such grapes beginning to come due one month later. The Companys short term borrowings to support such purchases generally reach their highest levels one to two months after the crush season has ended. Historically, the Company has used cash flow from operating activities to repay its short term borrowings and fund capital expenditures. The Company will continue to use its short term borrowings to support its working capital requirements. The Company believes that cash provided by operating activities and its financing activities, primarily short term borrowings, will provide adequate resources to satisfy its working capital, scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, preferred stock dividend payment requirements, and anticipated capital expenditure requirements for both its short term and long term capital needs. In addition, the Company intends to utilize cash provided by operating activities and financing activities to repurchase shares under the Companys share repurchase program (see below) beginning in Fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2006 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2006 was $436.0 million, which resulted from $325.3 million of net income, plus $167.2 million of net non cash items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Income and $48.8 million of cash proceeds credited to accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) within the Consolidated Balance Sheet, less $105.2 million representing the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities. The net non cash items consisted primarily of depreciation of property, plant and equipment and deferred tax provision. The cash proceeds credited to AOCI consisted of $30.3 million in proceeds from the unwinding of certain interest rate swaps (see discussion below under Senior Credit Facilities) and $18.5 million in proceeds from the early termination of certain foreign currency derivative instruments related to the Companys change in its structure of certain of its cash flow hedges of forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions. As the forecasted transactions are still probable, this amount was recorded to AOCI and will be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the same periods in which the original hedged items are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The net change in operating assets and liabilities resulted primarily from an increase in inventories and decreases in accrued advertising and promotion and restructuring accruals, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable. 39 Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for Fiscal 2006 was $15.6 million, which resulted primarily from $132.5 million of capital expenditures and net cash paid of $45.9 million for purchases of businesses, partially offset by $173.5 million of net proceeds from sales of assets, equity method investment, and businesses, primarily attributable to sales of non strategic Robert Mondavi assets. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for Fiscal 2006 was $426.2 million resulting primarily from principal payments of long term debt of $527.6 million partially offset by net proceeds of $63.8 million from notes payable and $31.5 million of proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Fiscal 2005 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2005 was $320.7 million, which resulted from $276.5 million of net income, plus $176.0 million of net non cash items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Income, less $131.7 million representing the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities. The net non cash items consisted primarily of depreciation of property, plant and equipment, deferred tax provision and the non cash portion of loss on extinguishment of debt. The net change in operating assets and liabilities resulted primarily from increases in accounts receivable and inventories. The increases in accounts receivable and inventories are primarily a result of the Companys growth in Fiscal 2005. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for Fiscal 2005 was $1,222.9 million, which resulted primarily from net cash paid of $1,052.5 million for purchases of businesses and $119.7 million of capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for Fiscal 2005 was $884.2 million resulting primarily from proceeds from issuance of long term debt of $2,400.0 million, partially offset by principal payments of long term debt of $1,488.7 million. Share Repurchase Program During June 1998, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100.0 million of its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Under this program, the Company had purchased a total of 8,150,688 shares of Class A Common Stock at an aggregate cost of $44.9 million, or at an average cost of $5.51 per share. Of this total amount, no shares were repurchased during Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 or Fiscal 2004. During February 2006, the Companys Board of Directors replenished the June 1998 authorization to repurchase up to $100.0 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. The repurchase of shares of common stock will be accomplished, from time to time, in managements discretion and depending upon market conditions, through open market or privately negotiated transactions. The Company may finance such repurchases through cash generated from operations or through the senior credit facility. The repurchased shares will become treasury shares. As of May 1, 2006, no additional shares were repurchased under the amended program. 40 Debt Total debt outstanding as of February 28, 2006, amounted to $2,809.7 million, a decrease of $479.5 million from February 28, 2005. The ratio of total debt to total capitalization decreased to 48.6% as of February 28, 2006, from 54.2% as of February 28, 2005, primarily due to the paydown of term debt resulting primarily from net cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from sales of non strategic assets associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, net of capital expenditures. In connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor, the Company expects to finance the purchase price and repayment of Vincors outstanding indebtedness with borrowings under an amended and restated senior credit facility. If the acquisition of Vincor is completed in early June 2006 as currently expected, the Companys ratio of total debt to total capitalization will be significantly impacted. Senior Credit Facility 2004 Credit Agreement In connection with the acquisition of Robert Mondavi, on December 22, 2004, the Company and its U.S. subsidiaries (excluding certain inactive subsidiaries), together with certain of its subsidiaries organized in foreign jurisdictions, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a lender and administrative agent, and certain other agents, lenders, and financial institutions entered into a new credit agreement (the 2004 Credit Agreement). The 2004 Credit Agreement provides for aggregate credit facilities of $2.9 billion (subject to increase as therein provided to $3.2 billion), consisting of a $600.0 million tranche A term loan facility due in November 2010, a $1.8 billion tranche B term loan facility due in November 2011, and a $500.0 million revolving credit facility (including a sub facility for letters of credit of up to $60.0 million) which terminates in December 2010. Proceeds of the 2004 Credit Agreement were used to pay off the Companys obligations under its prior senior credit facility, to fund the cash consideration payable in connection with its acquisition of Robert Mondavi, and to pay certain obligations of Robert Mondavi, including indebtedness outstanding under its bank facility and unsecured notes of $355.4 million. The Company uses its revolving credit facility under the 2004 Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes, including working capital, on an as needed basis. The tranche A term loan facility and the tranche B term loan facility were fully drawn on December 22, 2004. As of February 28, 2006, the required principal repayments of the tranche A term loan and the tranche B term loan for each of the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter are as follows: Tranche A Term Loan Tranche B Term Loan Total (in thousands) 2007 $ $ $ 2008 45,182 45,182 2009 103,273 14,563 117,836 2010 109,727 14,563 124,290 2011 96,818 353,160 449,978 Thereafter 1,026,714 1,026,714 $ 355,000 $ 1,409,000 $ 1,764,000 The rate of interest on borrowings under the 2004 Credit Agreement, at the Companys option, is a function of LIBOR plus a margin, the federal funds rate plus a margin, or the prime rate plus a margin. The margin is adjustable based upon the Companys debt ratio (as defined in the 2004 Credit Agreement) and, with respect to LIBOR borrowings, ranges between 1.00% and 1.75%. As of February 28, 2006, the LIBOR margin for the revolving credit facility and the tranche A term loan facility is 1.25%, while the LIBOR margin on the tranche B term loan facility is 1.50%. 41 The Companys obligations are guaranteed by its U.S. subsidiaries (excluding certain inactive subsidiaries) and by certain of its foreign subsidiaries. These obligations are also secured by a pledge of (i) 100% of the ownership interests in most of the Companys U.S. subsidiaries and (ii) 65% of the voting capital stock of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to customary lending covenants including those restricting additional liens, the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including guarantees of indebtedness), the sale of assets, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, the disposition and acquisition of property and the making of certain investments, in each case subject to numerous baskets, exceptions and thresholds. The financial covenants are limited to maximum total debt and senior debt coverage ratios and minimum fixed charges and interest coverage ratios. As of February 28, 2006, the Company is in compliance with all of its covenants under its 2004 Credit Agreement. As of February 28, 2006, under the 2004 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding tranche A term loans of $355.0 million bearing a weighted average interest rate of 5.8%, tranche B term loans of $1,409.0 million bearing a weighted average interest rate of 5.9%, revolving loans of $54.5 million bearing a weighted average interest rate of 5.7%, undrawn revolving letters of credit of $35.1 million, and $410.4 million in revolving loans available to be drawn. In March 2005, the Company replaced its then outstanding five year interest rate swap agreements with new five year delayed start interest rate swap agreements effective March 1, 2006, which are outstanding as of February 28, 2006. These delayed start interest rate swap agreements extended the original hedged period through fiscal 2010. The swap agreements fixed LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% over the five year term. The Company received $30.3 million in proceeds from the unwinding of the original swaps. This amount will be reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) ratably into earnings in the same period in which the original hedged item is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income. For Fiscal 2006, the Company reclassified $3.6 million from AOCI to Interest Expense, net in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income. This non cash operating activity is included in the Other, net line in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Foreign Subsidiary Facilities The Company has additional credit arrangements available totaling $188.9 million as of February 28, 2006. These arrangements support the financing needs of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiary operations. Interest rates and other terms of these borrowings vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions. As of February 28, 2006, amounts outstanding under the subsidiary credit arrangements were $52.3 million. Senior Notes As of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 5/8% Senior Notes due August 2006 (the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes are currently redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company. As of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding 1.0 million ($1.8 million) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series B Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series B Senior Notes). In addition, as of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding 154.0 million ($270.1 million, net of $0.3 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series C Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series C Senior Notes). The Sterling Series B Senior Notes and Sterling Series C Senior Notes are currently redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company. 42 Also, as of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8% Senior Notes due February 2008 (the February 2001 Senior Notes). The February 2001 Senior Notes are currently redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company. Senior Subordinated Notes As of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due January 2012 (the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes). The January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time on or after January 15, 2007. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table sets forth information about the Companys long term contractual obligations outstanding at February 28, 2006. It brings together data for easy reference from the consolidated balance sheet and from individual notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Notes 8, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 14 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for detailed discussion of items noted in the following table. PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years After 5 years (in thousands) Contractual obligations Notes payable to banks $ 79,881 $ 79,881 $ $ $ Long term debt (excluding unamortized discount) 2,730,188 214,066 378,234 856,085 1,281,803 Operating leases 457,377 65,586 97,018 71,491 223,282 Other long term liabilities 312,699 86,154 69,414 46,896 110,235 Unconditional purchase obligations(1) 2,105,767 414,060 627,630 389,789 674,288 Total contractual obligations $ 5,685,912 $ 859,747 $ 1,172,296 $ 1,364,261 $ 2,289,608 (1) Total unconditional purchase obligations consist of $26.1 million for contracts to purchase various spirits over the next seven fiscal years, $1,920.9 million for contracts to purchase grapes over the next sixteen fiscal years, $82.5 million for contracts to purchase bulk wine over the next eight fiscal years and $76.3 million for processing contracts over the next nine fiscal years. See Note 14 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of these items. Equity Offerings During July 2003, the Company completed a public offering of 19,600,000 shares of its Class A Common Stock resulting in net proceeds to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $261.2 million. In addition, the Company also completed a public offering of 170,500 shares of its 5.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (Preferred Stock) resulting in net proceeds to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $164.9 million. The Class A Common Stock offering and the Preferred Stock offering are referred to together as the 2003 Equity Offerings. The majority of the net proceeds from the 2003 Equity Offerings were used to repay the Companys then existing bridge loans that were incurred to partially finance the Hardy Acquisition. The remaining proceeds were used to repay term loan borrowings under the Companys then existing senior credit facility. 43 Capital Expenditures During Fiscal 2006, the Company incurred $132.5 million for capital expenditures. The Company plans to spend approximately $155 million for capital expenditures in Fiscal 2007, excluding any amount the Company may incur after the completion of the pending acquisition of Vincor. In addition, the Company continues to consider the purchase, lease and development of vineyards and may incur additional expenditures for vineyards if opportunities become available. See Business Sources and Availability of Raw Materials under Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Management reviews the capital expenditure program periodically and modifies it as required to meet current business needs. Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices The Companys results of operations and financial condition have not been significantly affected by inflation and changing prices. The Company has been able, subject to normal competitive conditions, to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices and identifying on going cost savings initiatives. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will continue to be able to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices. Critical Accounting Policies The Companys significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. However, certain of the Companys accounting policies are particularly important to the portrayal of the Companys financial position and results of operations and require the application of significant judgment by the Companys management; as a result they are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. In applying those policies, the Companys management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. Those estimates are based on the Companys historical experience, the Companys observance of trends in the industry, information provided by the Companys customers and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. On an ongoing basis, the Company reviews its estimates to ensure that they appropriately reflect changes in the Companys business. The Companys critical accounting policies include: Accounting for promotional activities. Sales reflect reductions attributable to consideration given to customers in various customer incentive programs, including pricing discounts on single transactions, volume discounts, promotional and advertising allowances, coupons, and rebates. Certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the cost of those programs. The accrued liability for these programs is determined through analysis of programs offered, historical trends, expectations regarding customer and consumer participation, sales and payment trends, and experience with payment patterns associated with similar programs that had been previously offered. If assumptions included in the Companys estimates were to change or market conditions were to change, then material incremental reductions to revenue could be required, which would have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. Promotional costs were $501.9 million, $390.9 million and $336.4 million for Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively. 44 Inventory valuation. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being determined on the first in, first out method. The Company assesses the valuation of its inventories and reduces the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of the Companys forecasted usage to their estimated net realizable value. The Company estimates the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements. Reductions to the carrying value of inventories are recorded in cost of product sold. If the future demand for the Companys products is less favorable than the Companys forecasts, then the value of the inventories may be required to be reduced, which could result in material additional expense to the Company and have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. Accounting for business combinations. The acquisition of businesses is an important element of the Companys strategy. Under the purchase method, the Company is required to record the net assets acquired at the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The determination of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Companys financial statements. For example, the Companys acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets; the value and estimated life of those assets may affect the amount of future period amortization expense for intangible assets with finite lives as well as possible impairment charges that may be incurred. Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Intangible assets with indefinite lives consist primarily of trademarks as well as agency relationships. The Company is required to analyze its goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis as well as when events and circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Certain factors that may occur and indicate that an impairment exists include, but are not limited to, operating results that are lower than expected and adverse industry or market economic trends. The impairment testing requires management to estimate the fair value of the assets or reporting unit and record an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. The estimate of fair value of the assets is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows. The estimate of fair value of the reporting unit is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows supplemented by the market approach. In estimating the fair value, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as future cash flows, future revenues, future earnings and other factors. The assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are generally consistent with the past performance of each reporting unit and other intangible assets and are also consistent with the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. The recording of any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. 45 Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151 (SFAS No. 151), Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43 (ARB No. 43), Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing, to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). SFAS No. 151 requires that those items be recognized as current period charges. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. As required, the Company adopted SFAS No. 151 on March 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS No. 123(R)), Share Based Payment. SFAS No. 123(R) replaces Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (SFAS No. 123), Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (APB Opinion No. 25), Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS No. 123(R) requires the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. In addition, SFAS No. 123(R) establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share based payment arrangements and requires all entities to apply a grant date fair value based measurement method in accounting for share based payment transactions. SFAS No. 123(R) also amends Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95 (SFAS No. 95), Statement of Cash Flows, to require that excess tax benefits be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid. SFAS No. 123(R) applies to all awards granted, modified, repurchased, or cancelled after the required effective date (see below). In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB No. 107), Share Based Payment, to express the views of the staff regarding the interaction between SFAS No. 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations and to provide the staffs views regarding the valuation of share based payment arrangements for public companies. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) as of March 1, 2006, using the modified prospective application. This application requires compensation cost to be recognized on or after the required effective date for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered based on the grant date fair value of those awards as calculated under SFAS No. 123 for either recognition or pro forma disclosures. As of March 1, 2006, the unrecognized compensation expense associated with the remaining portion of the unvested outstanding awards is not material. In addition, the Company estimates stock based compensation expense for options to be granted for the year ended February 28, 2007, to approximate $8.5 million, excluding any options granted or which may be granted in connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor. 46 In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154 (SFAS No. 154), Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3. SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle and requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 requires that a change in depreciation, amortization, or depletion method for long lived, nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change of estimate effected by a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 also carries forward without change the guidance in APB Opinion No. 20 with respect to accounting for changes in accounting estimates, changes in the reporting unit and correction of an error in previously issued financial statements. As required, the Company adopted SFAS No. 154 on March 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 154 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 47 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company, as a result of its global operating, acquisition and financing activities, is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To manage the volatility relating to these risks, the Company periodically purchases and or sells derivative instruments including foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate swap agreements. The Company uses derivative instruments solely to reduce the financial impact of these risks and does not use derivative instruments for trading purposes. Foreign currency forward contracts are or may be used to hedge existing foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, forecasted foreign currency denominated sales both to third parties as well as intercompany sales, intercompany principal and interest payments, and in connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the U.S. As of February 28, 2006, the Company had exposures to foreign currency risk primarily related to the Australian dollar, euro, New Zealand dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and Mexican peso. As of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange derivative instruments with a notional value of $1,254.7 million and $601.6 million, respectively. Approximately 65% of the Companys total exposures were hedged as of February 28, 2006. Using a sensitivity analysis based on estimated fair value of open contracts using forward rates, if the contract base currency had been 10% weaker as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the fair value of open foreign exchange contracts would have been decreased by $77.5 million and $65.2 million, respectively. Losses or gains from the revaluation or settlement of the related underlying positions would substantially offset such gains or losses on the derivative instruments. Subsequent to February 28, 2006, the Company entered into a foreign currency forward contract in connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor to fix the U.S. dollar cost of the acquisition and the payment of certain outstanding indebtedness. The foreign currency forward contract is for the purchase of Cdn$1.4 billion at a rate of Cdn$1.149 to U.S.$1.00. The Company will be required to mark the foreign currency forward contract to market with resulting gains or losses to be recorded in future results of operations. The Company currently expects to complete the acquisition of Vincor in early June 2006. The fair value of fixed rate debt is subject to interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk. The estimated fair value of the Companys total fixed rate debt, including current maturities, was $1,010.5 million and $1,080.2 million as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, respectively. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of fixed interest rate long term debt by $26.9 million and $37.0 million, respectively. As of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the Company had outstanding five year delayed start interest rate swap agreements and five year interest rate swap agreements, respectively, to minimize interest rate volatility. The swap agreements fix LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% over the five year term. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, would have increased the fair value of the interest rate swaps by $43.8 million and $53.1 million, respectively. In addition to the $1,010.5 million and $1,080.2 million estimated fair value of fixed rate debt outstanding as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, respectively, the Company also had variable rate debt outstanding (primarily LIBOR based) as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, of $1,856.1 million and $2,310.6 million, respectively. Using a sensitivity analysis based on a hypothetical 1% increase in prevailing interest rates over a 12 month period, the approximate increase in cash required for interest as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, is $18.6 million and $23.1 million, respectively. 48 
 
