Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation regarding (i) the Companys business strategy, future financial position, prospects, plans and objectives of management, (ii) the Companys expected purchase price allocations, restructuring charges, accelerated depreciation, acquisition related integration costs, and other costs, (iii) information concerning expected actions of third parties, and (iv) future worldwide or domestic economic conditions and the global credit environment are forward looking statements. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the words anticipate, intend, expect, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements, although not all forward looking statements contain such identifying words. All forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations and conditions in the general economy and markets in which the Company competes, the forward looking statements of the Company contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are also subject to the risk and uncertainty that the Companys purchase price allocations, restructuring charges, accelerated depreciation, acquisition related integration costs, and other costs may vary materially from current expectations due to, among other reasons, variations in anticipated headcount reductions, contract terminations or modifications, equipment relocation, proceeds from the sale of assets identified for sale, product portfolio rationalizations, production footprint and or other costs of implementation. Additional important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied, by the Companys forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are those described in Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report and in other Company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Introduction Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms Company, we, our, or us refer to Constellation Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and all references to net sales refer to gross sales less promotions, returns and allowances, and excise taxes to conform with the Companys method of classification. All references to Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008, and Fiscal 2007 shall refer to the Companys fiscal year ended the last day of February of the indicated year. All references to Fiscal 2010 shall refer to the Companys fiscal year ending February 28, 2010. Market positions and industry data discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are as of calendar 2008 and have been obtained or derived from industry and government publications and Company estimates. The industry and government publications include: Adams Liquor Handbook; Adams Wine Handbook; Adams Beer Handbook; Adams Handbook Advance; The U.S. Wine Market: Impact Databank Review and Forecast; The U.S. Beer Market: Impact Databank Review and Forecast; The U.S. Spirits Market: Impact Databank Review and Forecast; Euromonitor; Australian Bureau of Statistics; Information Resources, Inc.; ACNielsen; Association for Canadian Distillers; AZTEC; and DISCUS. The Company has not independently verified the data from the industry and government publications. Unless otherwise noted, all references to market positions are based on equivalent unit volume. The Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as the successor to a business founded in 1945. The Company has approximately 6,600 employees located throughout the world and the corporate headquarters are located in Victor, New York. The Company conducts its business through entities it wholly owns as well as through a variety of joint ventures with various other entities, both within and outside the U.S. The Company is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol with a strong portfolio of premium wine brands complemented by premium spirits, imported beers and other select beverage alcohol products. The Company has the largest wine business in the world and has a leading market position in each of its core markets, which include the United States (U.S.), Canada, United Kingdom (U.K.), Australia and New Zealand. The Company is the largest marketer of imported beer in the U.S. through its January 2, 2007, investment in Crown Imports, a joint venture with Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (Modelo) pursuant to which Modelos Mexican beer portfolio (the Modelo Brands) are imported, marketed and sold by the joint venture in the U.S. along with certain other imported brands (see Recent Acquisitions, Equity Method Investments and Divestiture below and Investment in Crown Imports under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K). Prior to January 2, 2007, the Company was the largest marketer of imported beer in 25 primarily western U.S. states, where it had exclusive rights to import, market and sell the Mexican brands in its portfolio. 1 Table of Contents On April 17, 2007, the Company participated in establishing and commencing operations of a joint venture with Punch Taverns plc (Punch) in which Punch acquired a 50% interest in the Companys wholesale business in the U.K. This U.K. wholesale joint venture is referred to hereinafter as Matthew Clark (see Recent Acquisitions, Equity Method Investments and Divestiture below and Investment in Matthew Clark under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K). Matthew Clark is the leading independent (non brewery owned) drinks wholesaler to the on premise trade in the U.K., providing a full range of beverage alcohol and soft drinks. The Company leverages Matthew Clark as a strategic route to market for its branded product portfolio. Many of the Companys products are recognized leaders in their respective categories and geographic markets. The Companys strong market positions make the Company a supplier of choice to many of its customers, who include wholesale distributors, retailers, on premise locations and government alcohol beverage control agencies. The Companys net sales by product category are summarized as follows: For the Year For the Year Ended Ended February 28, % of February 29, % of (in millions) 2009 Total 2008 Total Branded wine $ 3,015.3 83 % $ 3,016.9 80 % Wholesale and other 220.6 6 % 341.9 9 % Spirits 418.7 11 % 414.2 11 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,654.6 100 % $ 3,773.0 100 % The Companys geographic markets include North America (primarily the U.S. and Canada), Europe (primarily the U.K.) and Australia/New Zealand (primarily Australia and New Zealand). Net sales for spirits occurred in the North America market (primarily the U.S.). Branded wine net sales by geographic area (based on the location of the selling company) are summarized as follows: For the Year For the Year Ended Ended February 28, % of February 29, % of (in millions) 2009 Total 2008 Total North America $ 2,154.7 72 % $ 2,005.6 67 % Europe 521.3 17 % 637.9 21 % Australia/New Zealand 339.3 11 % 373.4 12 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,015.3 100 % $ 3,016.9 100 % During the past 10 years, there have been certain key trends within the beverage alcohol industry, which include: Consolidation of suppliers, wholesalers and retailers; An increase in global wine consumption, with premium wines growing faster than value priced wines; and In the U.S. within the beer category, high end beer (imports and crafts) growing faster than domestic beer. 2 Table of Contents To capitalize on these trends and become more competitive, the Company has employed a strategy of growing through a combination of internal growth, acquisitions and investments in joint ventures, with an increasing focus on higher margin premium categories of the beverage alcohol industry. Key elements of the Companys strategy include: Leveraging its existing portfolio of leading brands; Developing new products, new packaging and line extensions; Strengthening relationships with wholesalers and retailers; Expanding distribution of its product portfolio; Enhancing production capabilities; Realizing operating efficiencies and synergies; Maximizing asset utilization; and Acquiring additional management, operational, marketing, and product development expertise. Over the last two fiscal years, the Company has complemented this strategy by divesting certain businesses, brands, and assets as part of its efforts to increase its mix of premium brands, improve margins, create operating efficiencies and reduce debt. During Fiscal 2009, an increasingly challenging global economic environment has contributed to some slowing of premium wine growth in the near term but the Company believes consumers will continue to trade up to premium wines over the long term. Recent Acquisitions, Equity Method Investments and Divestitures In March 2009, as part of its strategic focus on higher margin premium brands in its portfolio, the Company sold its value spirits business for $330.5 million, net of direct costs to sell. The Company retained the SVEDKA Vodka and Black Velvet Canadian Whisky premium spirit brands, which have scale in the marketplace and higher margins than the value spirits brands that were sold. To achieve synergies and operating efficiencies, these brands will be consolidated into the Companys North American wine operations. The Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy brand, which is already being managed by the Companys North American wine business, was also retained. In June 2008, the Company sold certain businesses consisting of several California wineries and wine brands that had been acquired as part of the December 2007 acquisition of the Fortune Brands U.S. wine business, as well as certain wineries and wine brands from the states of Washington and Idaho (collectively, the Pacific Northwest Business) for cash proceeds of $204.2 million, net of direct costs to sell. This transaction contributes to the Companys streamlining of its U.S. wine portfolio by eliminating brand duplication and excess production capacity. In February 2008, as part of ongoing efforts to increase focus on premium wine offerings in the U.S., the Company sold its lower margin popular priced wine brands, Almaden and Inglenook, and certain other assets for cash proceeds of $133.5 million, net of direct costs to sell. In December 2007, the Company acquired the Fortune Brands U.S. wine business, which includes wineries and vineyards in California and produces, markets and sells super premium and fine wines including Clos du Bois and Wild Horse. The transaction expands the Companys portfolio of super premium plus wine brands and strengthens its position as the largest premium wine company in the U.S. 3 Table of Contents In April 2007, the Company along with Punch, a leading pub company in the U.K., commenced operations of Matthew Clark, a joint venture which owns and operates the U.K. wholesale business formerly owned entirely by the Company. The Company and Punch, directly or indirectly, each have a 50% voting and economic interest in Matthew Clark. On April 17, 2007, the Company discontinued consolidation of the U.K. wholesale business and began accounting for its investment in Matthew Clark under the equity method. In March 2007, the Company acquired the SVEDKA Vodka brand (Svedka) and related business. Svedka is produced in Sweden, and has become the fastest growing major premium spirits brand in the world and is the third largest imported vodka in the U.S. This acquisition increased the Companys mix of premium spirits. In January 2007, the Company completed the formation of Crown Imports. The Company and Modelo indirectly each have equal interest in Crown Imports, which has the exclusive right to import, market and sell the Modelo Brands, which include Corona Extra, Corona Light, Coronita, Modelo Especial, Pacifico, and Negra Modelo, in all 50 states of the U.S., the District of Columbia and Guam. In addition, the owners of the Tsingtao and St. Pauli Girl brands transferred exclusive importing, marketing and selling rights with respect to these brands in the U.S. to Crown Imports. Prior to January 2007, the Company had the exclusive right to import, market and sell Modelos Mexican beer portfolio in 25 primarily western U.S. states and was the exclusive U.S. national importer, marketer and seller of the Tsingtao and St. Pauli Girl brands. After completing the formation of Crown Imports, the Company discontinued consolidation of the imported beer business and accounts for its investment in Crown Imports under the equity method. In June 2006, the Company acquired Vincor International Inc. (Vincor), Canadas premier wine company. Vincor is Canadas largest producer and marketer of wines. At the time of the acquisition, Vincor was the worlds eighth largest producer and distributor of wine and related products by revenue and was also one of the largest wine importers, marketers and distributors in the U.K. Through this transaction, the Company acquired various additional winery and vineyard interests used in the production of premium, super premium and fine wines from Canada, California, Washington State, Western Australia and New Zealand. In addition, as a result of the acquisition, the Company sources, markets and sells premium wines from South Africa. Well known premium brands acquired in the Vincor acquisition include Inniskillin, Jackson Triggs, Sawmill Creek, Sumac Ridge, R.H. Phillips, Toasted Head, Hogue, Kim Crawford and Kumala. For more information about these transactions, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Business Segments As a result of the Companys investment in Crown Imports, the Company changed its internal management financial reporting to consist of three business divisions: Constellation Wines, Constellation Spirits and Crown Imports. Prior to the investment in the joint venture, the Companys internal management financial reporting included the Constellation Beers business division. Consequently, the Company reports its operating results in five segments: Constellation Wines (branded wine, and wholesale and other), Constellation Spirits (distilled spirits), Constellation Beers (imported beer), Corporate Operations and Other and Crown Imports (imported beer). Segment results for Constellation Beers are for the period prior to January 2, 2007, and segment results for Crown Imports are for the period on and after January 2, 2007. The business segments, described more fully below, reflect how the Companys operations are managed, how operating performance within the Company is evaluated by senior management and the structure of its internal financial reporting. 4 Table of Contents Information regarding net sales, operating income and total assets of each of the Companys business segments and information regarding geographic areas is set forth in Note 22 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Constellation Wines Constellation Wines is the leading producer and marketer of wine in the world. It sells a large number of wine brands across all categories table wine, sparkling wine and dessert wine and across all price points popular, premium, super premium and fine wine. The portfolio of super premium and fine wines is supported by vineyard holdings in the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand. As the largest producer and marketer of wine in the world, Constellation Wines has leading market positions in several countries. It is a leading producer and marketer of wine in the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand and the largest marketer of wine in the U.K. Wine produced by the Company in the U.S. is primarily marketed domestically and in the U.K. and Canada. Wine produced in Australia and New Zealand is primarily marketed domestically and in the U.S., Canada and U.K., while wine produced in Canada is primarily marketed domestically. In addition, Constellation Wines exports its wine products to other major wine consuming markets of the world. In the U.S., Constellation Wines sells 18 of the top selling 100 table brands and is the largest premium wine company. In Canada, it has wine across all price points, and has six of the top selling 25 table wine brands and the leading icewine brand with Inniskillin. It has five of the top selling 25 table wine brands in the U.K. and the best selling brand of fortified British wine. In Australia, it has wine brands across all price points and varieties, including a comprehensive range of premium wine brands, and has six of the top selling 25 wine brands and is the largest producer of cask (box) wines. Constellation Wines well known wine brands include Robert Mondavi Brands, Franciscan Oakville Estate, Wild Horse, Simi, Toasted Head, Estancia, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Ravenswood, Black Box, Vendange, Arbor Mist, Inniskillin, Kim Crawford, Ruffino, Nobilo, Jackson Triggs, Alice White, Hardys, Banrock Station, Stowells, and Kumala. Constellation Wines also produces and sells Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, a leading brand in the brandy/cognac category. Throughout Fiscal 2007 and prior to April 17, 2007, Constellation Wines owned entirely the leading independent beverage wholesaler to the on premise trade in the U.K. As previously discussed, on April 17, 2007, the Company, along with Punch, completed the formation of the Matthew Clark joint venture, which now owns and operates that U.K. wholesale business. Matthew Clark has approximately 20,000 on premise accounts and distributes wine, distilled spirits, cider, beer, RTDs and soft drinks. Those products include Constellation Wines branded wine and cider, and products produced by other major drinks companies. Constellation Wines is also the second largest producer and marketer of cider in the U.K., with leading cider brands Blackthorn, Olde English and Gaymers, and a leading producer and a leading marketer of wine kits and beverage alcohol refreshment coolers in Canada. In conjunction with its wine production, Constellation Wines produces and sells bulk wine and other related products and services. 5 Table of Contents Constellation Spirits Through fiscal 2009, Constellation Spirits produced, bottled, imported and marketed a diversified line of distilled spirits. The majority of the segments distilled spirits unit volume consisted of products marketed in the value price category, including Chi Chis prepared cocktails, Barton, Skl, Fleischmanns, Canadian LTD, Montezuma, Ten High, Mr. Boston and Inver House, and Svedka Vodka and Black Velvet Canadian Whisky in the premium price category. As discussed above, in March 2009, the Company sold its value spirits business while retaining the Svedka and Black Velvet premium spirit brands, both of which have a leading position in their respective categories, as well as certain other spirits brands. Constellation Beers Prior to January 2, 2007, Constellation Beers was the largest marketer of imported beer in 25 primarily western U.S. states, where it had exclusive rights to import, market and sell the Mexican brands in its portfolio, Corona Extra, Corona Light, Coronita, Modelo Especial, Pacifico, and Negra Modelo. Constellation Beers also had exclusive rights to the entire U.S. to import, market and sell the St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao brands. Crown Imports Effective January 2, 2007, the Constellation Beers operating segment was replaced with the Crown Imports operating segment as the Company completed the formation of the Crown Imports joint venture with Modelo. The Company and Modelo indirectly each have equal interest in Crown Imports, which has the exclusive right to import, market and sell Corona Extra, Corona Light, Coronita, Modelo Especial, Pacifico, Negra Modelo, St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao brands in all 50 states of the U.S. The Company accounts for its investment in Crown Imports under the equity method. In the U.S., Crown Imports has six of the top selling 25 imported beer brands. Corona Extra is the best selling imported beer and the sixth best selling beer overall and Corona Light is the leading imported light beer while St. Pauli Girl is the number two selling German Beer and Tsingtao is the number one selling Chinese Beer. Corporate Operations and Other The Corporate Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate related items including executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global supply chain. Marketing and Distribution The Companys segments employ full time, in house marketing, sales and customer service organizations to maintain a high degree of focus on their respective product categories. The organizations use a range of marketing strategies and tactics to build brand equity and increase sales, including market research, consumer and trade advertising, price promotions, point of sale materials, event sponsorship, on premise promotions and public relations. Where opportunities exist, particularly with national accounts in the U.S., the Company leverages its sales and marketing skills across the organization and segments. 6 Table of Contents In North America, the Companys products are primarily distributed by a broad base of wholesale distributors as well as state and provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies. As is the case with all other beverage alcohol companies, products sold through state or provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies are subject to obtaining and maintaining listings to sell the Companys products in that agencys state or province. State and provincial governments can affect prices paid by consumers of the Companys products. This is possible either through the imposition of taxes or, in states and provinces in which the government acts as the distributor of the Companys products through an alcohol beverage control agency, by directly setting retail prices for the Companys products. In the U.K., the Companys products are distributed either directly to retailers or through wholesalers and importers. Matthew Clark sells and distributes the Companys branded products and those of other major drinks companies to on premise locations through a network of depots located throughout the U.K. In Australia, New Zealand and other markets, the Companys products are primarily distributed either directly to retailers or through wholesalers and importers. In the U.K., Australia and New Zealand, the distribution channels are dominated by a small number of industry leaders. Trademarks and Distribution Agreements Trademarks are an important aspect of the Companys business. The Company sells its products under a number of trademarks, which the Company owns or uses under license. Throughout its segments, the Company also has various licenses and distribution agreements for the sale, or the production and sale, of its products and products of third parties. These licenses and distribution agreements have varying terms and durations. At the end of the Companys fiscal year ended February 28, 2009, these agreements included, among others, a long term license agreement with Hiram Walker Sons, Inc., which expires in 2116, for the Ten High, Crystal Palace, Northern Light, Lauders and Imperial Spirits brands, and a long term license agreement with Chi Chis, Inc., which expires in 2117, for the production, marketing and sale of beverage products, alcoholic and non alcoholic, utilizing the Chi Chis brand name. On that date the Company also held an import and license agreement for the Caravella brands with Sperone SPA, which expires in 2057, under which it owned the Caravella trademarks in the U.S. during the term, and a distribution and license agreement with C.D.G., SA that expires in 2015 for the Meukow brand. As previously discussed, in March 2009, the Company sold its value spirits business. The Companys rights to various trademarks were transferred as part of that divestiture, including the Companys rights to all of the foregoing named trademarks. All of the Companys imported beer products are imported, marketed and sold through Crown Imports. Crown Imports has entered into exclusive importation agreements with the suppliers of the imported beer products. These agreements have terms that vary and prohibit Crown Imports from importing beer products from other producers from the same country. Crown Imports Mexican beer portfolio, the Modelo Brands, currently consists of the Corona Extra, Corona Light, Coronita, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo and Pacifico brands and is marketed and sold in all 50 states of the U.S., the District of Columbia and Guam. Crown Imports also has entered into license and importation agreements with the owners of the German St. Pauli Girl and the Chinese Tsingtao brands for their importation, marketing and sale within the U.S. With respect to the Modelo Brands, Crown Imports has an exclusive sub license to use certain trademarks related to Modelo Brands beer products in the U.S. (including the District of Columbia and Guam) pursuant to a sub license agreement between Crown Imports and Marcas Modelo, S.A. de C.V. This sub license agreement continues for the duration of the Crown Imports joint venture. 7 Table of Contents Crown Imports and Extrade II S.A. de C.V. (Extrade II), an affiliate of Modelo, have entered into an Importer Agreement (the Importer Agreement), pursuant to which Extrade II granted to Crown Imports the exclusive right to sell the Modelo Brands in the territories mentioned above. The joint venture and the related importation arrangements provide that, subject to the terms and conditions of those agreements, the joint venture and the related importation arrangements will continue through 2016 for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10 year periods unless GModelo Corporation, a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of Diblo, S.A. de C.V. (Diblo), gives notice prior to the end of year seven of any term. Competition The beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive. The Company competes on the basis of quality, price, brand recognition and distribution strength. The Companys beverage alcohol products compete with other alcoholic and non alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well as shelf space in retail stores, restaurant presence and wholesaler attention. The Company competes with numerous multinational producers and distributors of beverage alcohol products, some of which may have greater resources than the Company. Constellation Wines principal wine competitors include: EJ Gallo Winery, Fosters Group, WJ Deutsch, Kendall Jackson, Ste. Michelle Wine Estates, Diageo and Brown Forman in the U.S.; Andrew Peller, Fosters Group, Maison des Futailles and EJ Gallo Winery in Canada; Fosters Group, EJ Gallo Winery, Diageo, and Pernod Ricard in the U.K.; and Fosters Group and Pernod Ricard in Australia and New Zealand. Constellation Wines principal cider competitors include Heineken and CC Group. Constellation Spirits principal distilled spirits competitors include: Diageo, Fortune Brands, Bacardi, Pernod Ricard and Brown Forman. Crown Imports principal competitors include: Heineken, Anheuser Busch InBev, MillerCoors and Diageo in the imported beer category as well as domestic producers such as Anheuser Busch InBev and MillerCoors. Production In the U.S., the Company operates 19 wineries where wine is produced from many varieties of grapes grown principally in the Napa, Sonoma, Monterey and San Joaquin regions of California. In Australia, the Company operates 11 wineries where wine is produced from many varieties of grapes grown in most of the major viticultural regions. The Company also operates 10 wineries in Canada, four wineries in New Zealand and one winery in South Africa. Grapes are crushed at most of the Companys wineries and stored as wine until packaged for sale under the Companys brand names or sold in bulk. In the U.S. and Canada, the Companys inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in September through November during and after the crush of each years grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent years crush. Similarly, in Australia and New Zealand, the Companys inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in March through May during and after the crush of each years grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent years crush. The Companys Canadian whisky requirements are produced and aged at its Canadian distillery in Lethbridge, Alberta. The Companys requirements of grains and bulk spirits it uses in the production of Canadian whisky, are primarily purchased from various suppliers. 8 Table of Contents The Company operates two facilities in the U.K. that produce, bottle and package wine and cider. To produce Stowells, wine is imported in bulk from various countries and packaged at the Companys facility at Bristol, England. All cider production takes place at the Companys facility at Shepton Mallet, England. Sources and Availability of Production Materials The principal components in the production of the Companys branded beverage alcohol products are agricultural products, such as grapes and grain, and packaging materials (primarily glass). Most of the Companys annual grape requirements are satisfied by purchases from each years harvest which normally begins in August and runs through October in the U.S. and Canada, and begins in February and runs through May in Australia and New Zealand. The Company believes that it has adequate sources of grape supplies to meet its sales expectations. However, in the event that demand for certain wine products exceed expectations, the Company would seek to source the extra requirements from the bulk wine markets, but could experience shortages. The Company receives grapes from approximately 1,150 independent growers in the U.S., approximately 1,300 independent growers in Australia, approximately 120 independent growers in New Zealand and approximately 110 independent growers in Canada. The Company enters into written purchase agreements with a majority of these growers and pricing generally varies year to year and is generally based on then current market prices. In Australia, approximately 700 of the 1,300 growers belong to a grape growers cooperative. The Company purchases the majority of its Australian grape requirements from this cooperative under a long term arrangement. In the U.K., the Company produces wine from materials purchased either on a contract basis or on the open market. At February 28, 2009, the Company owned or leased approximately 24,400 acres of land and vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California (U.S.), New York (U.S.), Canada, Australia and New Zealand. This acreage supplies only a small percentage of the Companys overall total wine needs. However, most of this acreage is used to supply a large portion of the grapes used for the production of the Companys super premium and fine wines. The Company continues to consider the purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional land for vineyard plantings, to supplement its grape supply. The distilled spirits manufactured and imported by the Company require various agricultural products, neutral grain spirits and bulk spirits. The Company fulfills its requirements through purchases from various sources by contractual arrangement and through purchases on the open market. The Company believes that adequate supplies of the aforementioned products are available at the present time. In the U.K., the Company sources apples for cider production primarily through long term supply arrangements with owners of apple orchards. The Company believes there are adequate supplies of apples at this particular time. 9 Table of Contents The Company utilizes glass and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles and other materials such as caps, corks, capsules, labels, wine bags and cardboard cartons in the bottling and packaging of its products. Glass bottle costs are one of the largest components of the Companys cost of product sold. In the U.S., Canada and Australia, the glass bottle industry is highly concentrated with only a small number of producers. The Company has traditionally obtained, and continues to obtain, its glass requirements from a limited number of producers under long term supply arrangements. Currently, one producer supplies most of the Companys glass container requirements for its U.S. operations and another producer supplies substantially all of the Companys glass container requirements for its Australian operations and an affiliate of that producer supplies a majority of the Companys glass container requirements for its Canadian operations. The Company has been able to satisfy its requirements with respect to the foregoing and considers its sources of supply to be adequate at this time. However, the inability of any of the Companys glass bottle suppliers to satisfy the Companys requirements could adversely affect the Companys operations. Government Regulation The Company is subject to a range of regulations in the countries in which it operates. Where it produces products, the Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations and may be required to obtain permits and licenses to operate its facilities. Where it markets and sells products, it may be subject to laws and regulations on trademark and brand registration, packaging and labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes, sales promotions, advertising and public relations. The Company is also subject to rules and regulations relating to changes in officers or directors, ownership or control. The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates. The Company also believes that the cost of administration and compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations does not have, and is not expected to have, a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Seasonality The beverage alcohol industry is subject to seasonality in each major category. As a result, in response to wholesaler and retailer demand which precedes consumer purchases, the Companys wine and spirits sales are typically highest during the third quarter of its fiscal year, primarily due to seasonal holiday buying. Crown Imports imported beer sales are typically highest during the first and second quarters of the Companys fiscal year, which correspond to the Spring and Summer periods in the U.S. Employees As of the end of March 2009, the Company had approximately 6,600 full time employees throughout the world. Approximately 2,900 full time employees were in the U.S. and approximately 3,700 full time employees were outside of the U.S., in countries including Australia, the U.K., Canada and New Zealand. Additional workers may be employed by the Company during the peak and grape crushing seasons. The Company considers its employee relations generally to be good. 10 Table of Contents Company Information The Companys internet address is http://www.cbrands.com. The Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including its annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible free of charge at http://www.cbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The internet address of the SECs site is http://www.sec.gov. Also, the public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The Company has adopted a Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics that specifically applies to its chief executive officer, its principal financial officer, and controller. This Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics meets the requirements as set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 406 of Regulation S K. The Company has posted on its internet website a copy of the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics. It is accessible at http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/constellationbrands/Investors/CorporateGovernance. The Company also has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all employees, directors and officers, including each person who is subject to the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on the Companys internet website, together with the Companys Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing, its Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Charters of the Boards Audit Committee, Human Resources Committee (which serves as the Boards compensation committee) and Corporate Governance Committee (which serves as the Boards nominating committee). All of these materials are accessible on the Companys Internet site at http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/constellationbrands/Investors/CorporateGovernance. Amendments to, and waivers granted to the Companys directors and executive officers under the Companys codes of ethics, if any, will be posted in this area of the Companys website. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics, and or the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines and committee charters are available in print to any shareholder who requests it. Shareholders should direct such requests in writing to Investor Relations Department, Constellation Brands, Inc., 207 High Point Drive, Building 100, Victor, New York 14564, or by telephoning the Companys Investor Center at 1 888 922 2150. The foregoing information regarding the Companys website and its content is for your convenience only. The content of the Companys website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this report or filed with the SEC. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business operations. Recent worldwide and domestic economic trends and financial market conditions could adversely impact our financial performance. As widely reported, the worldwide and domestic economies have experienced adverse conditions and may be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. We are subject to risks associated with these adverse conditions, including economic slowdown and the disruption, volatility and tightening of credit and capital markets. In addition, this global economic situation could adversely impact our major suppliers, distributors and retailers. The inability of suppliers, distributors or retailers to conduct business or to access liquidity could impact our ability to produce and distribute our products. We have a committed credit facility and additional liquidity facilities available to us. While to date we have not experienced problems with accessing these facilities, to the extent that the financial institutions that participate in these facilities were to default on their obligation to fund, those funds would not be available to us. The timing and nature of any recovery in the financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future. A prolonged downturn, further worsening or broadening of the adverse conditions in the worldwide and domestic economies could affect consumer spending patterns and purchases of our products, and create or exacerbate credit issues, cash flow issues and other financial hardships for us and for our suppliers, distributors, retailers and consumers. Depending upon their severity and duration, these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in the financial markets and the adverse economic conditions in the United States and its other major markets outside the United States. 12 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial health. We have incurred substantial indebtedness to finance our acquisitions. In the future, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance further acquisitions or for other purposes. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance. We do not have complete control over our future operating performance because it is subject to prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business and other factors. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet all of our debt service requirements and to fund our capital expenditure requirements. Our current and future debt service obligations and covenants could have important consequences to you. These consequences include, or may include, the following: Our ability to obtain financing for future working capital needs or acquisitions or other purposes may be limited; Our funds available for operations, expansion or distributions will be reduced because we will dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; Our ability to conduct our business could be limited by restrictive covenants; and Our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be greater than less leveraged competitors and, thus, our ability to withstand competitive pressures may be limited. Our senior credit facility and the indentures under which our debt securities have been issued contain restrictive covenants and provisions. These covenants and provisions affect our ability to grant additional liens, engage in changes of control and engage in certain other fundamental changes. Certain of our existing indentures under which debt securities have been issued contain additional covenants and provisions that affect our ability to incur additional debt, sell assets, pay dividends, enter into transactions with affiliates, make investments and engage in certain other additional fundamental changes. Our senior credit facility also contains restrictions on our ability to make acquisitions and certain financial ratio tests, including a debt coverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. These restrictions could limit our ability to conduct business. If we fail to comply with the obligations contained in the senior credit facility, our existing or future indentures or other loan agreements, we could be in default under such agreements, which could require us to immediately repay the related debt and also debt under other agreements that may contain cross acceleration or cross default provisions. 13 Table of Contents Our acquisition, disposition and joint venture strategies may not be successful. We have made a number of acquisitions, including our acquisition of the Fortune Brands, Inc. U.S. wine business, our Svedka acquisition and our Vincor acquisition and we anticipate that we may, from time to time, acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. We will need to integrate acquired businesses with our existing operations. We cannot assure you that we will effectively assimilate the business or product offerings of acquired companies into our business or product offerings or realize anticipated operational synergies. Integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies into our existing operations or separating from our existing operations the operations and personnel of businesses of which we dispose may result in difficulties, significant expense and accounting charges, disrupt our business or divert managements time and attention. In connection with the integration of acquired operations or the conduct of our overall business strategies, we may periodically restructure our businesses and or sell assets or portions of our business, including the recent sale of our value spirits business. We may not achieve expected cost savings from restructuring activities or realize the expected proceeds from sales of assets or portions of our business, and actual charges, costs and adjustments due to restructuring activities may vary materially from our estimates. Additionally, our final determinations and appraisals of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions may vary materially from earlier estimates. We cannot assure you that the fair value of acquired businesses will remain constant. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the U.S., we may enter into derivative contracts to purchase foreign currency in order to hedge against the risk of foreign currency fluctuations in connection with such acquisitions or joint venture investments, which subjects us to the risk of foreign currency fluctuations associated with such derivative contracts. We have entered into joint ventures, including our joint venture with Modelo and our joint venture with Punch, and we may enter into additional joint ventures. We share control of our joint ventures. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the joint venture. Our joint venture arrangements may require us to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments and we may have little control over the amount or the timing of these payments and investments. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Our failure or the failure of an entity in which we have a joint venture interest to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that any of our acquisitions or joint ventures will be profitable or that forecasts regarding joint venture activities will be accurate. In particular, risks and uncertainties associated with our joint ventures include, among others, the joint ventures ability to operate its business successfully, the joint ventures ability to develop appropriate standards, controls, procedures and policies for the growth and management of the joint venture and the strength of the joint ventures relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers. 14 Table of Contents Competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are in a highly competitive industry and the dollar amount and unit volume of our sales could be negatively affected by our inability to maintain or increase prices, changes in geographic or product mix, a general decline in beverage alcohol consumption or the decision of wholesalers, retailers or consumers to purchase competitive products instead of our products. Wholesaler, retailer and consumer purchasing decisions are influenced by, among other things, the perceived absolute or relative overall value of our products, including their quality or pricing, compared to competitive products. Unit volume and dollar sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising or promotional decisions made by wholesalers, state and provincial agencies, and retailers which could affect their supply of, or consumer demand for, our products. We could also experience higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses if we find it necessary to increase the number of our personnel or our advertising or promotional expenditures to maintain our competitive position or for other reasons. An increase in import and excise duties or other taxes or government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S., the U.K., Canada, Australia and other countries in which we operate impose import and excise duties and other taxes on beverage alcohol products in varying amounts which have been subject to change. Significant increases in import and excise duties or other taxes on beverage alcohol products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Many U.S. states have considered proposals to increase, and some of these states have increased, state alcohol excise taxes. There may be further consideration by governmental entities to increase taxes upon beverage alcohol products as governmental entities explore available alternatives for raising funds during the current macroeconomic climate. In addition, federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies extensively regulate the beverage alcohol products industry concerning such matters as licensing, trade and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers. Certain federal and state or provincial regulations also require warning labels and signage. New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees, requirements or taxes could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, major retailers and government agencies for the success of our business. Local market structures and distribution channels vary worldwide. In the U.S., we sell our products principally to wholesalers for resale to retail outlets including grocery stores, club and discount stores, package liquor stores and restaurants and also directly to government agencies. In the U.K., we sell our products principally to retailers and also to wholesalers. In Australia, we sell our products principally to wholesalers and also directly to retailers, while in Canada, we sell our products to government agencies. The replacement or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers or government agencies could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to collect accounts receivable from our major wholesalers, retailers or government agencies could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the wholesale and retail distribution channels, particularly in Europe and the U.S. If we are unable to successfully adapt to this changing environment, our net income, market share and volume growth could be negatively affected. In addition, wholesalers and retailers of our products offer products which compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, wholesalers or retailers may give higher priority to products of our competitors. In the future, our wholesalers and retailers may not continue to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support. 15 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by a decline in the consumption of products we sell. Since 1995, there have been modest increases in consumption of beverage alcohol in most of our product categories and geographic markets. There have been periods in the past, however, in which there were substantial declines in the overall per capita consumption of beverage alcohol products in the U.S. and other markets in which we participate. A limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including: A general decline in economic or geo political conditions; Increased concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol products and about drinking and driving; A general decline in the consumption of beverage alcohol products in on premise establishments, such as may result from smoking bans; A trend toward a healthier diet including lighter, lower calorie beverages such as diet soft drinks, juices and water products; The increased activity of anti alcohol groups; Increased federal, state or foreign excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol products; and Increased regulation placing restrictions on the purchase or consumption of beverage alcohol products. In addition, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products. The launch and ongoing success of new products are inherently uncertain especially with regard to their appeal to consumers. The launch of a new product can give rise to a variety of costs and an unsuccessful launch, among other things, can affect consumer perception of existing brands. We generally purchase raw materials under short term supply contracts, and we are subject to substantial price fluctuations for grapes and grape related materials, and we have a limited group of suppliers of glass bottles. Our business is heavily dependent upon raw materials, such as grapes, grape juice concentrate, grains, alcohol and packaging materials from third party suppliers. We could experience raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties that could adversely affect our ability to supply goods to our customers. Increases in the costs of raw materials also directly affect us. In the past, we have experienced dramatic increases in the cost of grapes. Although we believe we have adequate sources of grape supplies, in the event demand for certain wine products exceed expectations, we could experience shortages. The wine industry swings between cycles of grape oversupply and undersupply. In a severe oversupply environment, the ability of wine producers, including ourselves, to raise prices is limited, and, in certain situations, the competitive environment may put pressure on producers to lower prices. Further, although an oversupply may enhance opportunities to purchase grapes at lower costs, a producers selling and promotional expenses associated with the sale of its wine products can rise in such an environment. Glass bottle costs are one of our largest components of cost of product sold. In the U.S., Canada and Australia, glass bottles have only a small number of producers. Currently, one producer supplies most of our glass container requirements for our U.S. operations and another producer supplies substantially all of our glass container requirements for our Australian operations and one of its affiliates supplies a majority of our glass container requirements for our Canadian operations. The inability of any of our glass bottle suppliers to satisfy our requirements could adversely affect our business. 16 Table of Contents Our operations subject us to risks relating to currency rate fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations and geopolitical uncertainty which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have operations in different countries throughout the world and, therefore, are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. As a result of our international acquisitions, we have significant exposure to foreign currency risk as a result of having international operations in Australia, New Zealand and the U.K. Following the Vincor acquisition, our exposure to foreign currency risk increased significantly in Canada and also further increased in Australia, New Zealand and the U.K. We are also exposed to risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. We manage our exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risks utilizing derivative instruments and other means to reduce those risks. We, however, could experience changes in our ability to hedge against or manage fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing those risks. We could also be affected by nationalizations or unstable governments or legal systems or intergovernmental disputes. These currency, economic and political uncertainties may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, especially to the extent these matters, or the decisions, policies or economic strength of our suppliers, affect our global operations. We have a material amount of intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarks, and if we are required to write down any of these intangible assets, it would reduce our net income, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During the years ended February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, we recorded impairment losses of $300.4 million and $812.2 million, respectively, on our goodwill and intangible assets. We continue to have a significant amount of intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarks. In accordance with the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are subject to a periodic impairment evaluation. Reductions in our net income caused by the write down of any of these intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The termination of our joint venture with Modelo relating to importing, marketing and selling imported beer could have a material adverse effect on our business. On January 2, 2007, we participated in establishing and commencing operations of a joint venture with Modelo, pursuant to which Corona Extra and the other Modelo Brands are imported, marketed and sold by the joint venture in the U.S. (including the District of Columbia) and Guam along with certain other imported beer brands in their respective territories. Pursuant to the joint venture and related importation arrangements, the joint venture will continue for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10 year periods unless GModelo Corporation, a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of Diblo, gives notice prior to the end of year seven of any term of its intention to purchase our interest we hold through our subsidiary, Constellation Beers Ltd. (Constellation Beers). The joint venture may also terminate under other circumstances involving action by governmental authorities, certain changes in control of us or Constellation Beers as well as in connection with certain breaches of the importation and related sub license agreements, after notice and cure periods. The termination of the joint venture by acquisition of Constellation Beers interest or for other reasons noted above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Class action or other litigation relating to alcohol abuse or the misuse of alcohol could adversely affect our business. There has been increased public attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry, which we believe is due to concern over problems related to alcohol abuse, including drinking and driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. Several beverage alcohol producers have been sued in several courts regarding alleged advertising practices relating to underage consumers. Adverse developments in these types of lawsuits or a significant decline in the social acceptability of beverage alcohol products that results from lawsuits could materially adversely affect our business. We depend upon our trademarks and proprietary rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property rights or any claims that we are infringing upon the rights of others may adversely affect our competitive position and brand equity. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our current and future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. We have been granted numerous trademark registrations covering our brands and products and have filed, and expect to continue to file, trademark applications seeking to protect newly developed brands and products. We cannot be sure that trademark registrations will be issued with respect to any of our trademark applications. There is also a risk that we could, by omission, fail to timely renew or protect a trademark or that our competitors will challenge, invalidate or circumvent any existing or future trademarks issued to, or licensed by, us. Contamination could harm the integrity or customer support for our brands and adversely affect the sales of our products. The success of our brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of those brands. Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for those brands, could adversely affect their sales. Contaminants in raw materials purchased from third parties and used in the production of our wine and spirits products or defects in the distillation or fermentation process could lead to low beverage quality as well as illness among, or injury to, consumers of our products and may result in reduced sales of the affected brand or all of our brands. An increase in the cost of energy or the cost of environmental regulatory compliance could affect our profitability. We have experienced significant increases in energy costs, and energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs. We may experience significant future increases in the costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance. Our future operating expenses and margins will be dependent on our ability to manage the impact of cost increases. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to pass along increased energy costs or increased costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance to our customers through increased prices. 18 Table of Contents Our reliance upon complex information systems distributed worldwide and our reliance upon third party global networks means we could experience interruptions to our business services. We depend on information technology to enable us to operate efficiently and interface with customers, as well as maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate, and effectively manage, the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. As with all large systems, our information systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. Changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements could affect our financial results. New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to us from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. We are also subject to income tax in the numerous jurisdictions in which we generate revenues. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and or sales or value added taxes in many jurisdictions in which we operate. Increases in income tax rates could reduce our after tax income from affected jurisdictions, while increases in indirect taxes could affect our products affordability and therefore reduce our sales. Various diseases, pests and certain weather conditions could affect quality and quantity of grapes or other agricultural raw materials. Various diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts and certain other weather conditions could affect the quality and quantity of grapes and other agricultural raw materials available, decreasing the supply of our products and negatively impacting profitability. We cannot guarantee that our grape suppliers or suppliers of other agricultural raw materials will succeed in preventing contamination in existing vineyards or fields or that we will succeed in preventing contamination in our existing vineyards or future vineyards we may acquire. Future government restrictions regarding the use of certain materials used in grape growing may increase vineyard costs and or reduce production. Growing agricultural raw materials also requires adequate water supplies. A substantial reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of grape crops and vines or other crops, which could lead to a shortage of our product supply. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 19 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Through its business segments, the Company operates wineries, distilling and bottling plants, and cider producing facilities, most of which include warehousing and distribution facilities on the premises. Through Matthew Clark, the Company also operates separate distribution centers serving the Constellation Wines segments wholesaling business in the U.K. In addition to the Companys properties described below, certain of the Companys businesses maintain office space for sales and similar activities and offsite warehouse and distribution facilities in a variety of geographic locations. The Company believes that its facilities, taken as a whole, are in good condition and working order and have adequate capacity to meet its needs for the foreseeable future. The following discussion details the properties associated with the Companys five business segments. Constellation Wines Through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company maintains facilities in the U.S., Australia, New Zealand, the U.K., the Republic of Ireland, South Africa and Canada. These facilities include wineries, bottling plants, cider producing facilities, warehousing and distribution facilities, distribution centers and office facilities. The segment maintains owned and or leased division offices in Canandaigua, New York; St. Helena, California; Gonzales, California; San Francisco, California; Healdsburg, California; Reynella, South Australia; Bristol, England; Guildford, England; and Mississaugua, Ontario. United States In the U.S., the Company through its Constellation Wines segment operates two wineries in New York, located in Canandaigua and Naples; 16 wineries in California, located in Acampo, Esparto, Geyserville, Gonzales, Healdsburg, Kenwood, Madera, Oakville, Soledad, Rutherford, Templeton, Ukiah, two in Lodi, two in Sonoma; and one winery in Washington, located in Prosser. All of these wineries are owned. The Constellation Wines segment considers its principal wineries in the U.S. to be the Mission Bell winery in Madera (California), the Canandaigua winery in Canandaigua (New York), the Ravenswood wineries in Sonoma (California), the Franciscan Vineyards winery in Rutherford (California), the Woodbridge Winery in Acampo (California), the Turner Road Vintners Winery in Lodi (California), the Robert Mondavi Winery in Oakville (California) and the Blackstone Winery in Gonzales (California). The Mission Bell winery crushes grapes, produces, bottles and distributes wine and produces specialty concentrates and Mega Colors for sale. The Canandaigua winery crushes grapes and produces, bottles and distributes wine. The other principal wineries crush grapes, vinify, cellar and bottle wine. In California, the Constellation Wines segment also operates a distribution center and four warehouses. Through the Constellation Wines segment, as of February 28, 2009, the Company owned or leased approximately 12,600 acres of vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California and New York to supply a portion of the grapes used in the production of wine. 20 Table of Contents Australia/New Zealand Through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company owns and operates 11 Australian wineries, five of which are in South Australia, three in Western Australia and the other three in New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania. Additionally, through this segment the Company also owns four wineries in New Zealand. All but one of these Australia/New Zealand wineries crush grapes, vinify and cellar wine. Four include bottling and or packaging operations. The facility in Reynella, South Australia bottles a significant portion of the wine produced in Australia, produces all Australian sparkling wines and cellars wines. The Company considers the segments principal facilities in Australia/New Zealand to be the Berri Estates winery located in Glossop and the bottling facility located in Reynella, both in South Australia. Through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company owns or has interests in approximately 6,100 acres of vineyards in South Australia, Western Australia, Victoria, and Tasmania, and approximately 3,900 acres of vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in New Zealand. Europe Through the Constellation Wines segment, in the U.K. the Company operates two facilities in England, located in Bristol and Shepton Mallet. The Bristol facility, which is leased, is considered a principal facility and produces, bottles and packages wine; and the Shepton Mallet facility, which is owned, produces, bottles and packages cider. Through this segment, the Company operates a National Distribution Centre, located at a leased facility in Severnside, Bristol, England, together with two leased satellite facilities and two third party storage facilities within the same region, to distribute the Companys products that are produced at the Bristol and Shepton Mallet facilities as well as products imported from other wine suppliers. The Company also operates an additional satellite warehouse in leased facilities in Severnside. Matthew Clark operates 11 physical distribution centers located throughout the U.K., 10 of which are leased, as well as two virtual depots and two satellite depots. These distribution centers and depots are used to distribute products produced by the Company, as well as by third parties. Additionally, through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company leases warehouse and office facilities in Dublin in support of the Companys business of marketing, storing and distributing alcoholic beverages in the Republic of Ireland. Canada Through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company owns and operates 10 Canadian wineries, four of which are in British Columbia, four in Ontario, one in Quebec and one in New Brunswick. The British Columbia and Ontario operations all harvest a domestic crop and all locations vinify and cellar wines. Four wineries include bottling and or packaging operations. The Company also operates a distribution center in Mississaugua, Ontario. In addition, through the segment the Company operates facilities in Vancouver, British Columbia and Kitchener, Ontario in connection with its beer and wine making kit business, and a finished goods warehouse and sales office in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia. The Company considers the segments principal facilities in Canada to be Niagara Cellars located in Niagara Falls (Ontario), the Vincor Quebec Division located in Rougemont (Quebec), the Vincor Production Facility located in Oliver (British Columbia) and the distribution center located in Mississaugua (Ontario). 21 Table of Contents Through the Constellation Wines segment, as of February 28, 2009, the Company owned or leased approximately 1,800 acres of vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in Ontario and British Columbia to supply a portion of the grapes used in the production of wine. South Africa Through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company operates a leased winery facility in South Africa. Constellation Spirits Through the Constellation Spirits segment, the Company maintains leased division offices in Chicago, Illinois. Through this segment, the Company currently owns and operates a distilling plant located in Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada. The Company also previously owned and operated a distilling plant in Valleyfield, Quebec which it sold to a third party during Fiscal 2009. The Company has moved the operations previously conducted at the Valleyfield, Quebec plant to its Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada facility. In addition, as discussed in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the caption Business Recent Acquisitions, Equity Method Investments and Divestitures, subsequent to February 28, 2009, the Company sold its value spirits business, which included the sale of the Companys U.S. distilling, bottling and aging plant located in Bardstown, Kentucky. The Company considers this segments principal distilling plant to be the facility located in Lethbridge (Alberta), which distills, bottles and stores Canadian whisky for the segment, and distills and or bottles and stores Canadian whisky, vodka, rum, gin and liqueurs for third parties. The Company also had previously considered this segments distilling plants located in Bardstown (Kentucky) and Valleyfield (Quebec) to be principal facilities. The Bardstown facility distilled bottled and warehoused distilled spirits products for the Company and, on a contractual basis, for other industry members. The Valleyfield, Quebec facility distilled, bottled and stored Canadian whisky for the segment, and distilled and or bottled and stored Canadian whisky, vodka, rum, gin and liqueurs for third parties. In the U.S., the Company through its Constellation Spirits segment also previously operated two bottling plants, located in Owensboro, Kentucky and Carson, California. Subsequent to February 28, 2009, the Company disposed of both these facilities in connection with the sale of its value spirits business. The facility located in Owensboro (Kentucky) was owned, while the facility in Carson (California) was leased. The Company had previously considered this segments bottling plant located in Owensboro to be one of the segments principal facilities, and the Owensboro facility bottled and warehoused distilled spirits products for the segment and was also utilized for contract bottling. Constellation Beers and Crown Imports Through the Constellation Beers segment, the Company maintained leased division offices in Chicago, Illinois and contracted with five providers of warehouse space and services in eight locations throughout the U.S. Coincident with the formation of Crown Imports on January 2, 2007, these warehouse space and services contracts were transferred to the joint venture, and Crown Imports has entered into additional arrangements to satisfy its warehouse requirements. It currently has contracted with 18 providers of warehouse space and services in various locations throughout the U.S. Crown Imports maintains leased offices in Chicago, Illinois as well as in seven other locations throughout the U.S. Corporate Operations and Other The Companys corporate headquarters are located in leased offices in Victor, New York. 22 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the ordinary course of their business, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to lawsuits, arbitrations, claims and other legal proceedings in connection with their business. Some of the legal actions include claims for substantial or unspecified compensatory and or punitive damages. A substantial adverse judgment or other unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Management believes that the Company has adequate legal defenses with respect to the legal proceedings to which it is a defendant or respondent and that the outcome of these pending proceedings is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. However, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters. Regulatory Matters The Company and its subsidiaries are in discussions with various governmental agencies concerning matters raised during regulatory examinations or otherwise subject to such agencies inquiry. These matters could result in censures, fines or other sanctions. Management believes the outcome of any pending regulatory matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not Applicable. Executive Officers of the Company Information with respect to the current executive officers of the Company is as follows: NAME AGE OFFICE OR POSITION HELD Richard Sands 58 Chairman of the Board Robert Sands 50 President and Chief Executive Officer Alexander L. Berk 59 Chief Executive Officer, Constellation Beers and Spirits, and President and Chief Executive Officer, Constellation Services LLC Jose F. Fernandez 53 Chief Executive Officer, Constellation Wines North America F. Paul Hetterich 46 Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy Jon Moramarco 52 Chief Executive Officer, Constellation International Thomas J. Mullin 57 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Robert Ryder 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer W. Keith Wilson 58 Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Human Resources Officer Richard Sands, Ph.D., is the Chairman of the Board of the Company. He has been employed by the Company in various capacities since 1979. He has served as a director since 1982. In September 1999, Mr. Sands was elected Chairman of the Board. He served as Chief Executive Officer from October 1993 to July 2007, as Executive Vice President from 1982 to May 1986, as President from May 1986 to December 2002 and as Chief Operating Officer from May 1986 to October 1993. He is the brother of Robert Sands. 23 Table of Contents Robert Sands is President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. He was appointed Chief Executive Officer in July 2007 and appointed as President in December 2002. He has served as a director since January 1990. Mr. Sands also served as Chief Operating Officer from December 2002 to July 2007, as Group President from April 2000 through December 2002, as Chief Executive Officer, International from December 1998 through April 2000, as Executive Vice President from October 1993 through April 2000, as General Counsel from June 1986 through May 2000, and as Vice President from June 1990 through October 1993. He is the brother of Richard Sands. Alexander L. Berk is the Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Beers and Spirits and the President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Services LLC (successor by merger to Barton Incorporated). Since 1990 and prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of Barton Incorporated in March 1998, Mr. Berk was President and Chief Operating Officer of Barton Incorporated and from 1988 to 1990, he was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Schenley Industries. Mr. Berk has been in the beverage alcohol industry for most of his career, serving in various positions. Mr. Berk has announced that he will retire May 31, 2009, and has agreed to thereafter provide consultation services to the Company for up to one year. Jose F. Fernandez is the Chief Executive Officer, Constellation Wines North America and the President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Wines U.S., Inc. Mr. Fernandez has held various positions with the Company since 2000. He was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Wines North America in July 2007 and has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Wines U.S., Inc. since December 2003. Mr. Fernandez also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pacific Wine Partners (a previous joint venture between the Company and Hardy Wine Company Limited) from August 2001 until November 2003 and as Chief Executive Officer of BRL Hardy North America (previously an affiliate of Hardy Wine Company Limited) from October 2000 to August 2001. The Company acquired Hardy Wine Company Limited in calendar 2003. It is now known as Constellation Australia Limited. Mr. Fernandez has been in the beverage alcohol industry for most of his career, serving in various positions with other beverage alcohol companies. F. Paul Hetterich has been the Companys Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy since June 2003. From April 2001 to June 2003, Mr. Hetterich served as the Companys Senior Vice President, Corporate Development. Prior to that, Mr. Hetterich held several increasingly senior positions in the Companys marketing and business development groups. Mr. Hetterich has been with the Company since 1986. Jon Moramarco is the Chief Executive Officer, Constellation International, having served in that role since March 2007. From February 2006 through February 2007, he was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Europe, and from December 2003 through January 2006 he was President and Chief Executive Officer, Icon Estates. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc. (now named Constellation Wines U.S., Inc.) from October 1999 through November 2003. Mr. Moramarco has more than 20 years of diverse experience in the wine industry. Thomas J. Mullin joined the Company as Executive Vice President and General Counsel in May 2000. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Mullin served as President and Chief Executive Officer of TD Waterhouse Bank, NA, a national banking association, since February 2000, of CT USA, F.S.B. since September 1998, and of CT USA, Inc. since March 1997. He also served as Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy of C.T. Financial Services, Inc. from March 1997 through February 2000. From 1985 through 1997, Mr. Mullin served as Vice Chairman and Senior Executive Vice President of First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Rochester, New York and from 1982 through 1985, he was a partner in the law firm of Phillips, Lytle, Hitchcock, Blaine Huber. 24 Table of Contents Robert Ryder joined the Company in May 2007 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Ryder previously served from 2005 to 2006 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Administrative Officer of IMG, a sports marketing and media company. From 2002 to 2005, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of American Greetings Corporation, a publicly traded, multi national consumer products company. From 1989 to 2002, he held several management positions of increasing responsibility with PepsiCo, Inc. These included control, strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions and CFO and Controller positions serving at PepsiCos corporate headquarters and at its Frito Lay International and Frito Lay North America divisions. Mr. Ryder is a certified public accountant. W. Keith Wilson joined the Company in January 2002 as Senior Vice President, Human Resources. In September 2002, he was elected Chief Human Resources Officer and in April 2003 he was elected Executive Vice President. In July 2007, he was appointed Chief Administrative Officer while retaining the position of Executive Vice President. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Wilson served as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources of Xerox Engineering Systems, a subsidiary of Xerox Corporation, which engineers, manufactures and sells hi tech reprographics equipment and software worldwide. From 1990 to 1999, he served in various senior human resource positions with the banking, marketing and real estate and relocation businesses of Prudential Life Insurance of America, an insurance company that also provides other financial products. Executive officers of the Company are generally chosen or elected to their positions annually and hold office until the earlier of their removal or resignation or until their successors are chosen and qualified. 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Class A Common Stock (the Class A Stock) and Class B Common Stock (the Class B Stock) trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbols STZ and STZ.B, respectively. There is no public trading market for the Companys Class 1 Common Stock. The following tables set forth for the periods indicated the high and low sales prices of the Class A Stock and the Class B Stock as reported on the NYSE. CLASS A STOCK 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter Fiscal 2008 High $ 24.61 $ 25.79 $ 26.46 $ 24.97 Low $ 18.83 $ 21.23 $ 22.39 $ 19.01 Fiscal 2009 High $ 21.90 $ 23.09 $ 23.48 $ 17.16 Low $ 17.21 $ 18.82 $ 10.66 $ 11.54 CLASS B STOCK 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter Fiscal 2008 High $ 24.42 $ 25.60 $ 26.34 $ 24.91 Low $ 19.00 $ 21.40 $ 22.54 $ 19.20 Fiscal 2009 High $ 21.76 $ 22.96 $ 23.32 $ 17.55 Low $ 17.00 $ 19.21 $ 10.78 $ 11.64 At April 20, 2009, the number of holders of record of Class A Stock and Class B Stock of the Company were 961 and 198, respectively. There were no holders of record of Class 1 Common Stock. With respect to its common stock, the Companys policy is to retain all of its earnings to finance the development and expansion of its business, and the Company has not paid any cash dividends on its common stock since its initial public offering in 1973. In addition, under the terms of the Companys senior credit facility, the Company is currently constrained from paying cash dividends on its common stock. Also, certain of the indentures for the Companys outstanding senior notes and senior subordinated notes may restrict the payment of cash dividends on its common stock under certain circumstances. Any indentures for debt securities issued in the future, the terms of any preferred stock issued in the future and any credit agreements entered into in the future may also restrict or prohibit the payment of cash dividends on common stock. 26 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data For the Years Ended February 28, February 29, February 28, February 28, February 28, (in millions, except per share data) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 4,723.0 $ 4,885.1 $ 6,401.8 $ 5,707.0 $ 5,139.8 Less excise taxes (1,068.4 ) (1,112.1 ) (1,185.4 ) (1,103.5 ) (1,052.2 ) Net sales 3,654.6 3,773.0 5,216.4 4,603.5 4,087.6 Cost of product sold (2,424.6 ) (2,491.5 ) (3,692.5 ) (3,278.9 ) (2,947.0 ) Gross profit 1,230.0 1,281.5 1,523.9 1,324.6 1,140.6 Selling, general and administrative expenses (830.4 ) (807.3 ) (768.8 ) (612.4 ) (555.7 ) Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets(1) (300.4 ) (812.2 ) Restructuring charges(2) (68.0 ) (6.9 ) (32.5 ) (29.3 ) (7.6 ) Acquisition related integration costs(3) (8.2 ) (11.8 ) (23.6 ) (16.8 ) (9.4 ) Operating income (loss) 23.0 (356.7 ) 699.0 666.1 567.9 Equity in earnings of equity method investees 186.6 257.9 49.9 0.8 1.8 Interest expense, net (316.4 ) (341.8 ) (268.7 ) (189.6 ) (137.7 ) Gain on change in fair value of derivative instruments 55.1 (Loss) income before income taxes (106.8 ) (440.6 ) 535.3 477.3 432.0 Provision for income taxes (194.6 ) (172.7 ) (203.4 ) (152.0 ) (155.5 ) Net (loss) income (301.4 ) (613.3 ) 331.9 325.3 276.5 Dividends on preferred stock (4.9 ) (9.8 ) (9.8 ) (Loss) income available to common stockholders $ (301.4 ) $ (613.3 ) $ 327.0 $ 315.5 $ 266.7 Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic Class A Common Stock $ (1.40 ) $ (2.83 ) $ 1.44 $ 1.44 $ 1.25 Basic Class B Common Stock $ (1.27 ) $ (2.57 ) $ 1.31 $ 1.31 $ 1.14 Diluted Class A Common Stock $ (1.40 ) $ (2.83 ) $ 1.38 $ 1.36 $ 1.19 Diluted Class B Common Stock $ (1.27 ) $ (2.57 ) $ 1.27 $ 1.25 $ 1.09 Total assets $ 8,036.5 $ 10,052.8 $ 9,438.2 $ 7,400.6 $ 7,804.2 Long term debt, including current maturities $ 4,206.3 $ 4,878.0 $ 4,032.2 $ 2,729.9 $ 3,272.8 (1) For a detailed discussion of impairment of goodwill and intangible assets for the years ended February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the caption Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets and Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets, respectively. (2) For a detailed discussion of restructuring charges for the years ended February 28, 2009, February 29, 2008, and February 28, 2007, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the captions Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Restructuring Charges and Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Restructuring Charges, respectively. 27 Table of Contents (3) For a detailed discussion of acquisition related integration costs for the years ended February 28, 2009, February 29, 2008, and February 28, 2007, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the caption Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Acquisition Related Integration Costs and Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Acquisition Related Integration Costs, respectively. For the years ended February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Overview The Company is the largest wine company in the world with a strong portfolio of consumer preferred premium wine brands complemented by spirits, imported beer and other select beverage alcohol products. The Company continues to supply imported beer in the United States (U.S.) through its investment in a joint venture with Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (Modelo). This imported beers joint venture operates as Crown Imports LLC and is referred to hereinafter as Crown Imports. As a result of their joint venture transactions, the Company and Modelo, through their affiliates, each have equal interests in Crown Imports and have appointed an equal number of directors to the Board of Directors of Crown Imports. Crown Imports commenced operations on January 2, 2007. The Company has the largest wine business in the world and is the largest premium wine company in the U.S.; a leading producer and exporter of wine from Australia and New Zealand; the largest producer and marketer of wine in Canada; and both a major supplier of beverage alcohol and, through its investment in Matthew Clark (see Equity Method Investment in Fiscal 2008 below), a major independent drinks wholesaler in the United Kingdom (U.K.). Through January 1, 2007, the Company reported its operating results in three segments: Constellation Wines (branded wines, and U.K. wholesale and other), Constellation Beers and Spirits (imported beers and distilled spirits) and Corporate Operations and Other. As a result of the Companys investment in Crown Imports, the Company changed its internal management financial reporting to consist of three business divisions: Constellation Wines, Constellation Spirits and Crown Imports. Prior to the investment in Crown Imports, the Companys internal management financial reporting included the Constellation Beers business division. Consequently, the Company reports its operating results in five segments: Constellation Wines (branded wine, and wholesale and other), Constellation Spirits (distilled spirits), Constellation Beers (imported beer), Corporate Operations and Other and Crown Imports (imported beer). Segment results for Constellation Beers are for the period prior to January 2, 2007, and segment results for Crown Imports are for the period on and after January 2, 2007. Amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment consist of general corporate administration and finance expenses. These amounts include costs of executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global supply chain. Any costs incurred at the corporate office that are applicable to the segments are allocated to the appropriate segment. The amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment are general costs that are applicable to the consolidated group and are therefore not allocated to the other reportable segments. All costs reported within the Corporate Operations and Other segment are not included in the chief operating decision makers evaluation of the operating income performance of the other reportable segments. 28 Table of Contents In addition, the Company excludes acquisition related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual items that affect comparability from its definition of operating income for segment purposes as these items are not reflective of normal continuing operations of the segments. The Company excludes these items as segment operating performance and segment management compensation is evaluated based upon a normalized segment operating income. As such, the performance measures for incentive compensation purposes for segment management do not include the impact of these items. The Companys business strategy is to remain focused on consumer preferred premium wine brands, complemented by premium spirits and imported beers. The Company intends to continue to invest in fast growing premium product categories and geographic markets and expects to capitalize on its size and scale in the marketplace to profitably grow the business. The Company remains committed to its long term financial model of growing sales (both organically and through acquisitions), expanding margins and increasing cash flow to achieve earnings per share growth and improve return on invested capital. Worldwide and domestic economies have experienced adverse conditions and may be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. The economic and consumer conditions in the Companys key markets and on a global basis are currently very challenging and are contributing to an increasing intensity of the competitive environment in the marketplace. In addition, the global credit and capital markets continue to experience significant volatility and remain tight. This global economic situation has or could adversely affect the Companys major suppliers, distributors and retailers. The inability of suppliers, distributors or retailers to conduct business or to access liquidity could adversely impact the Companys business and financial performance. In order to mitigate the impact of these challenging conditions, the Company is focusing on improving operating efficiencies, containing costs and optimizing cash flow and return on invested capital. The Company has also maintained adequate liquidity to meet current obligations and fund capital expenditures. However, depending upon their severity and duration, adverse conditions in the worldwide and domestic economies could have a material adverse impact on the Companys business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Marketing, sales and distribution of the Companys products are managed on a geographic basis in order to fully leverage leading market positions within each core market. Market dynamics and consumer trends vary significantly across the Companys five core markets (U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia and New Zealand) within the Companys three geographic regions (North America, Europe and Australia/New Zealand). Within North America, the Company offers a range of beverage alcohol products across the branded wine and spirits and, through Crown Imports, imported beer categories in the U.S. Within the Companys remaining geographies, the Company offers primarily branded wine. The environment for the Companys products is competitive in each of the Companys core markets, due, in part, to industry and retail consolidation. In particular, the U.K. and Australian markets are highly competitive, as further described below. The U.K. wine market is primarily an import market with Australian wines comprising approximately one quarter of all wine sales in the U.K. off premise business. The Australian wine market is primarily a domestic market. The Company has leading share positions in the Australian wine category in both the U.K. and Australian markets. 29 Table of Contents Due to competitive conditions in the U.K. and Australia, it has been difficult for the Company in recent fiscal periods to recover certain cost increases, in particular, the duty increases in the U.K. which have been imposed annually for the past several years. In the U.K., significant consolidation at the retail level has resulted in a limited number of large retailers controlling a significant portion of the off premise wine business. The continuing surplus of Australian wine has made and continues to make very low cost bulk wine available to these U.K. retailers which has allowed certain of these large retailers to create and build private label brands in the Australian wine category. In January 2008, the Company implemented a price increase in the U.K. to cover certain cost increases. In March 2008, the U.K. announced a significant increase in duty as well as the expectation for future annual increases to approximate two percentage points above the rate of inflation. The Company immediately implemented an additional price increase in an effort to offset the impact of this March 2008 duty increase. In November 2008, the U.K. announced an additional increase in duty to be effective December 1, 2008. In an effort to offset the impact of this December 2008 duty increase, the Company immediately implemented an additional price increase in the U.K. In addition, the Company also implemented a price increase in Australia during the first quarter of calendar 2008 in an effort to improve profitability. These price increases, combined with the concentrated retail environment, competition from private label causing deterioration of retail pricing, foreign exchange volatility, and the escalating consumer recession, have all contributed to a greater than expected negative effect on the Companys results of operations for its U.K. and Australian businesses for Fiscal 2009 (as defined below). The calendar years 2004, 2005 and 2006 were years of record Australian grape harvests that contributed to a surplus of Australian bulk wine. The calendar 2007 Australian grape harvest was significantly lower than the calendar 2006 Australian grape harvest as a result of an ongoing drought and late spring frosts in several regions. As a result of various conditions surrounding the calendar 2008 Australian grape harvest, the Company previously expected the supply of wine to continue to move toward balance with demand. However, the calendar 2008 Australian grape harvest was higher than expected, and, although the calendar 2009 Australian grape harvest is expected to be lower than the calendar 2008 Australian grape harvest, the current Australian bulk wine surplus, and related intense competitive conditions in the U.K. and Australian markets, are not expected to subside in the near term. In the U.S., although the calendar 2008 grape harvest was slightly lower than the calendar 2007 grape harvest, the Company expects the overall supply of wine to remain generally in balance with demand. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis. As a result of this analysis, the Company concluded that the carrying amount of goodwill assigned to the Constellation Wines segments U.K. reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value and recorded an impairment loss of $252.7 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impairment loss was determined by comparing the carrying value of goodwill assigned to the specific reporting unit within the segment as of January 1, 2009, with the implied fair value of the goodwill. In determining the implied fair value of the goodwill, the Company considered estimates of future operating results and cash flows of the reporting unit discounted using market based discount rates. The estimates of future operating results and cash flows were principally derived from the Companys updated long term financial forecast, which was developed as part of the Companys strategic planning cycle conducted during the Companys fourth quarter. The decline in the implied fair value of the goodwill and the resulting impairment loss was driven primarily by the accelerated deterioration in the Companys U.K. business during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and the resulting adjustment to the Companys long term financial forecasts, which showed lower estimated future operating results reflecting the significant fourth quarter deterioration in market conditions in the U.K. 30 Table of Contents In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company performed its review of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company determined that certain trademarks associated primarily with the Constellation Wines segments U.K. reporting unit were impaired largely due to the aforementioned market declines in the U.K. during the fourth quarter, and the resulting lower revenue and profit forecasts associated with products incorporating these assets which reflected the significant fourth quarter deterioration in market conditions in the U.K. The Company measured the amount of impairment by calculating the amount by which the carrying value of these assets exceeded their estimated fair values, which were based on projected discounted future cash flows. As a result of this review, the Company recorded impairment losses of $25.9 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company had previously recorded impairment losses of $21.8 million during its second quarter of fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys Australian Initiative (as defined below) and the resulting lower revenue and profit forecasts associated with certain brands incorporating assets impacted by the Australian Initiative. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company performed its review of equity method investments for other than temporary impairment. The Company determined that two of the Companys Constellation Wines segments international equity method investments, Matthew Clark and Ruffino S.r.l., were impaired primarily due to the decline in revenue and profit forecasts for these two equity method investees reflecting the significant market deterioration during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The Company measured the amount of impairment by calculating the amount by which the carrying value of these assets exceeded their estimated fair values, which were based on projected discounted future cash flows. As a result of this review, the Company recorded impairment losses of $79.2 million in equity in earnings of equity method investees on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the year ended February 28, 2009 (Fiscal 2009), the Companys net sales decreased 3% over the year ended February 29, 2008 (Fiscal 2008), primarily due to the divestitures of the Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and the Pacific Northwest wine brands (see Divestitures in Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 below); an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact; and accounting for the Matthew Clark investment under the equity method of accounting (see Equity Method Investments in Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 below); partially offset by net sales of branded wine acquired in the BWE Acquisition (as defined below) and the Companys Constellation Wines segments Fiscal 2008 initiative to reduce distributor wine inventory levels in the U.S., which negatively impacted net sales in the first half of fiscal 2008 as discussed below. Operating income (loss) increased over the comparable prior year period primarily due to lower impairment losses for Fiscal 2009 combined with the incremental benefit from (i) the BWE Acquisition and (ii) the increased net sales discussed above in connection with the Fiscal 2008 distributor wine inventory reduction initiative without a corresponding increase in promotional, advertising, and selling, general and administrative spend within the Constellation Wines segment. These factors were partially offset by costs recognized in Fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys plan to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with the Australian business, primarily by consolidating certain winemaking and packaging operations and reducing the Companys overall grape supply due to reduced capacity needs resulting from a streamlining of the Companys product portfolio (the Australian Initiative). The Companys net loss decreased over the comparable prior year periods net loss primarily due to the factors discussed above, partially offset by a decrease in equity in earnings of equity method investees associated primarily with the Fiscal 2009 impairment losses recorded on certain of the Companys international equity method investments (as discussed above). 31 Table of Contents The Companys Constellation Wines segment implemented a program to reduce distributor wine inventory levels in the U.S. during the first half of fiscal 2008, in response to the consolidation of distributors over the past few years and supply chain technology improvements. As distributors are looking to operate with lower levels of inventory while maintaining appropriate service levels to retailers, the Company has worked closely with its distributors to improve supply chain efficiencies. The Company substantially completed its reduction of distributor wine inventory levels during the second quarter of fiscal 2008. This initiative had a significant impact on the Companys Fiscal 2008 financial performance, including a reduction of net sales of approximately $110 million and a reduction in diluted earnings per share of approximately $0.15 per share. The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting (i) consolidated results of operations of the Company for Fiscal 2009 compared to Fiscal 2008, and Fiscal 2008 compared to the year ended February 28, 2007 (Fiscal 2007), and (ii) financial liquidity and capital resources for Fiscal 2009. This discussion and analysis also identifies certain acquisition related integration costs, restructuring charges and net unusual costs expected to affect consolidated results of operations of the Company for Fiscal 2010. References to base branded wine net sales, base branded wine gross profit and base branded wine business exclude the impact of (i) branded wine acquired in the BWE Acquisition and (ii) branded wine disposed of in the Almaden and Inglenook divestiture and the Pacific Northwest Business divestiture. References to base branded spirits net sales and base branded spirits gross profit exclude the impact of branded spirits acquired in the Svedka Acquisition. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included herein. Recent Developments Divestiture of Value Spirits Business In March 2009, the Company sold its value spirits business for $330.5 million, net of direct costs to sell, subject to post closing adjustments. The Company received $274.5 million in cash proceeds and a note receivable for $60.0 million. The Company retained certain mid premium spirits brands, including Svedka Vodka, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy. This transaction is consistent with the Companys strategic focus on premium, higher growth and higher margin brands in its portfolio. In connection with the classification of this business as an asset group held for sale as of February 28, 2009, the Companys Constellation Spirits segment recorded a loss of $15.6 million for Fiscal 2009, primarily related to asset impairments. This loss is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 32 Table of Contents Fiscal 2010 Global Initiative On April 7, 2009, the Company announced its plan to simplify its business, increase efficiencies and reduce its cost structure on a global basis (the Global Initiative). The Global Initiative includes the elimination of approximately five percent of the Companys global workforce and the closure of certain office, production and warehouse facilities. In addition, the Global Initiative includes the termination of certain contracts, and a streamlining of the Companys production footprint and sales and administrative organizations. Lastly, the Global Initiative includes other non material restructuring activities primarily in connection with the consolidation of the Companys remaining spirits business into its North American wine business following the recent disposition of its value spirits business. This initiative is part of the Companys ongoing efforts to maximize asset utilization, reduce costs and improve long term return on invested capital throughout the Companys operations. The Company expects all costs associated with the Global Initiative to be recognized in its Consolidated Statements of Operations by February 28, 2011. Acquisitions in Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 Acquisition of BWE On December 17, 2007, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Beam Wine Estates, Inc. (BWE), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Fortune Brands, Inc., together with BWEs subsidiaries: Atlas Peak Vineyards, Inc., Buena Vista Winery, Inc., Clos du Bois, Inc., Gary Farrell Wines, Inc. and Peak Wines International, Inc. (the BWE Acquisition). As a result of the BWE Acquisition, the Company acquired the U.S. wine portfolio of Fortune Brands, Inc., including certain wineries, vineyards or interests therein in the State of California, as well as various super premium and fine California wine brands including Clos du Bois and Wild Horse. In June 2008, the Company sold certain assets acquired in the BWE Acquisition (see Divestitures in Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 below). The BWE Acquisition supports the Companys strategy of strengthening its portfolio with fast growing super premium and above wines. The BWE Acquisition strengthens the Companys position as the largest wine company in the world and the largest premium wine company in the U.S. Total consideration paid in cash was $877.3 million. In addition, the Company incurred direct acquisition costs of $1.4 million. The purchase price was financed with the net proceeds from the Companys December 2007 Senior Notes and revolver borrowings under the Companys 2006 Credit Agreement (each as defined below). The results of operations of the BWE business are reported in the Constellation Wines segment and are included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company from the date of acquisition. Acquisition of Svedka On March 19, 2007, the Company acquired the SVEDKA Vodka brand (Svedka) in connection with the acquisition of Spirits Marque One LLC and related business (the Svedka Acquisition). Svedka is a premium Swedish vodka and has become the fastest growing major premium spirits brand in the world. At the time of the acquisition, Svedka was the fifth largest imported vodka in the U.S. and, since the date of the acquisition, Svedka has become the third largest imported vodka in the U.S. In addition, at the time of the acquisition, the Svedka Acquisition supported the Companys strategy of expanding the Companys premium spirits business. The acquisition provided a foundation from which the Company looked to leverage its existing and future premium spirits portfolio for growth. In addition, Svedka complemented the Companys then existing portfolio of super premium and value vodka brands by adding a premium vodka brand that had and continues to experience rapid growth. 33 Table of Contents Total consideration paid in cash for the Svedka Acquisition was $385.8 million. In addition, the Company incurred direct acquisition costs of $1.3 million. The purchase price was financed with revolver borrowings under the Companys June 2006 Credit Agreement (as defined below) as amended in February 2007. The results of operations of the Svedka business are reported in the Constellation Spirits segment and are included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company from the date of acquisition. Acquisition of Vincor On June 5, 2006, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Vincor International Inc. (Vincor), Canadas premier wine company (the Vincor Acquisition). Vincor is Canadas largest producer and marketer of wine. At the time of the acquisition, Vincor was the worlds eighth largest producer and distributor of wine and related products by revenue and was also one of the largest wine importers, marketers and distributors in the U.K. Through this transaction, the Company acquired various additional winery and vineyard interests used in the production of premium, super premium and fine wines from Canada, California, Washington State, Western Australia and New Zealand. In addition, as a result of the acquisition, the Company sources, markets and sells premium wines from South Africa. Well known premium brands acquired in the Vincor Acquisition include Inniskillin, Jackson Triggs, Sawmill Creek, Sumac Ridge, R.H. Phillips, Toasted Head, Hogue, Kim Crawford and Kumala. The Vincor Acquisition supports the Companys strategy of strengthening the breadth of its portfolio across price segments and geographic regions to capitalize on the overall growth in the wine industry. In addition to complementing the Companys current operations in the U.S., U.K., Australia and New Zealand, the Vincor Acquisition increases the Companys global presence by adding Canada as another core market and provides the Company with the ability to capitalize on broader geographic distribution in strategic international markets. In addition, the Vincor Acquisition makes the Company the largest wine company in Canada and strengthens the Companys position as the largest wine company in the world and the largest premium wine company in the U.S. Total consideration paid in cash to the Vincor shareholders was $1,115.8 million. In addition, the Company incurred direct acquisition costs of $9.4 million. At closing, the Company also assumed outstanding indebtedness of Vincor, net of cash acquired, of $320.2 million, resulting in a total transaction value of $1,445.4 million. The purchase price was financed with borrowings under the Companys June 2006 Credit Agreement. The results of operations of the Vincor business are reported in the Constellation Wines segment and are included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company from the date of acquisition. Equity Method Investments in Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 Investment in Matthew Clark On April 17, 2007, the Company and Punch Taverns plc (Punch) commenced operations of a joint venture for the U.K. wholesale business (Matthew Clark). The U.K. wholesale business was formerly owned entirely by the Company. Under the terms of the arrangement, the Company and Punch, directly or indirectly, each have a 50% voting and economic interest in Matthew Clark. The joint venture reinforces Matthew Clarks position as the U.K.s largest independent premier drinks wholesaler serving the on trade drinks industry. The Company received $185.6 million of cash proceeds from the formation of the joint venture. 34 Table of Contents Upon formation of the joint venture, the Company discontinued consolidation of the U.K. wholesale business and accounts for the investment in Matthew Clark under the equity method. Accordingly, the results of operations of Matthew Clark are included in equity in earnings of equity method investees on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations from the date of investment. As discussed previously, the Company recorded an impairment of its investment in Matthew Clark during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. This impairment loss of $30.1 million is included in equity in earnings of equity method investees on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Investment in Crown Imports On July 17, 2006, Barton Beers, Ltd. (Barton, now known as Constellation Beers Ltd. Constellation Beers), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into an Agreement to Establish Joint Venture (the Joint Venture Agreement) with Diblo, S.A. de C.V. (Diblo), an entity owned 76.75% by Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (Modelo) and 23.25% by Anheuser Busch Companies, Inc., pursuant to which Modelos Mexican beer portfolio (the Modelo Brands) will be exclusively imported, marketed and sold in the 50 states of the U.S., the District of Columbia and Guam. In addition, the owners of the Tsingtao and St. Pauli Girl brands transferred exclusive importing, marketing and selling rights with respect to these brands in the U.S. to the joint venture. On January 2, 2007, the parties completed the closing (the Closing) of the transactions contemplated in the Joint Venture Agreement, as amended at Closing. Pursuant to the Joint Venture Agreement, Barton established Crown Imports LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary formed as a Delaware limited liability company. On January 2, 2007, pursuant to a Barton Contribution Agreement, dated July 17, 2006, among Barton, Diblo and Crown Imports LLC, Barton transferred to Crown Imports LLC substantially all of its assets relating to importing, marketing and selling beer under the Corona Extra, Corona Light, Coronita, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, Pacifico, St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao brands and the liabilities associated therewith (the Barton Contributed Net Assets). At the Closing, GModelo Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Diblo Subsidiary), a subsidiary of Diblo joined Barton as a member of Crown Imports LLC, and, in exchange for a 50% membership interest in Crown Imports LLC, contributed cash in an amount equal to the Barton Contributed Net Assets, subject to specified adjustments. This imported beers joint venture is referred to hereinafter as Crown Imports. Also on January 2, 2007, Crown Imports and Extrade II S.A. de C.V. (Extrade II), an affiliate of Modelo, entered into an importer agreement, pursuant to which Extrade II granted to Crown Imports the exclusive right to import, market and sell the Modelo Brands in the territories mentioned above, and Crown Imports and Marcas Modelo, S.A. de C.V. (Marcas Modelo), entered into a Sub license Agreement, pursuant to which Marcas Modelo granted Crown Imports an exclusive sub license to use certain trademarks related to the Modelo Brands within this territory. As a result of these transactions, Constellation Beers and Diblo each have, directly or indirectly, equal interests in Crown Imports and each of Constellation Beers and Diblo have appointed an equal number of directors to the Board of Directors of Crown Imports. The importer agreement that previously gave Barton the exclusive right to import, market and sell the Modelo Brands primarily west of the Mississippi River was superseded by the transactions contemplated by the Joint Venture Agreement, as amended. The contribution by Diblo Subsidiary in exchange for a 50% membership interest in Crown does not constitute the acquisition of a business by the Company. 35 Table of Contents The joint venture and the related importation arrangements provide that, subject to the terms and conditions of those agreements, the joint venture and the related importation arrangements will continue for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10 year periods unless Diblo Subsidiary gives notice prior to the end of year seven of any term. Upon consummation of the transactions, the Company discontinued consolidation of the imported beer business and accounts for the investment in Crown Imports under the equity method. Accordingly, the results of operations of Crown Imports are included in the equity in earnings of equity method investees line on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations from the date of investment. Divestitures in Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 Pacific Northwest Business In June 2008, the Company sold certain businesses consisting of several California wineries and wine brands acquired in the BWE Acquisition, as well as certain wineries and wine brands from the states of Washington and Idaho (collectively, the Pacific Northwest Business) for cash proceeds of $204.2 million, net of direct costs to sell. In addition, if certain objectives are achieved by the buyer, the Company could receive up to an additional $25.0 million in cash payments. This transaction contributes to the Companys streamlining of its U.S. wine portfolio by eliminating brand duplication and excess production capacity. In connection with this divestiture, the Companys Constellation Wines segment recorded a loss of $23.2 million for Fiscal 2009, which includes a loss on business sold of $15.8 million and losses on contractual obligations of $7.4 million. The loss of $23.2 million is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Almaden and Inglenook In February 2008, as part of ongoing efforts to increase focus on premium wine offerings in the U.S., the Company sold its lower margin value priced wine brands, Almaden and Inglenook, and certain other assets for cash proceeds of $133.5 million, net of direct costs to sell. The Company recorded a loss of $27.8 million on this sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, which is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 36 Table of Contents Results of Operations Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Net Sales % Increase 2009 2008 (Decrease) Constellation Wines: Branded wine $ 3,015.3 $ 3,016.9 Wholesale and other 220.6 341.9 (35 )% Constellation Wines net sales 3,235.9 3,358.8 (4 )% Constellation Spirits net sales 418.7 414.2 1 % Crown Imports net sales 2,393.2 2,391.0 1 % Consolidations and eliminations (2,393.2 ) (2,391.0 ) 1 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,654.6 $ 3,773.0 (3 )% Net sales for Fiscal 2009 decreased to $3,654.6 million from $3,773.0 million for Fiscal 2008, a decrease of $118.4 million, or (3%). This decrease was driven primarily by a reduction in wholesale and other net sales resulting largely from the accounting for the Matthew Clark investment under the equity method of accounting. A decrease in branded wine net sales due to the divestitures of the Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and the Pacific Northwest wine brands of $128.4 million and an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $108.8 million was partially offset by net sales of branded wine acquired in the BWE Acquisition of $147.3 million and the Companys Fiscal 2008 initiative to reduce distributor wine inventory levels in the U.S., which negatively impacted net sales in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2008 as discussed above. Constellation Wines Net sales for Constellation Wines decreased to $3,235.9 million for Fiscal 2009 from $3,358.8 million in Fiscal 2008, a decrease of $122.9 million, or (4%). Branded wine net sales decreased $1.6 million primarily due to the decrease in net sales associated with the divestitures of the Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and the Pacific Northwest wine brands of $128.4 million and an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $108.8 million being substantially offset by the net sales of branded wine acquired in the BWE Acquisition of $147.3 million and the benefit from the distributor wine inventory reduction initiative discussed above. Wholesale and other net sales decreased $121.3 million primarily due to the accounting for the Matthew Clark investment under the equity method of accounting. Constellation Spirits Net sales for Constellation Spirits increased to $418.7 million for Fiscal 2009 from $414.2 million for Fiscal 2008, an increase of $4.5 million, or 1%. This slight increase resulted primarily from net sales growth within the Companys branded spirits portfolio which was driven primarily by Svedka, partially offset by a decrease in contract production services net sales of $21.3 million resulting predominantly from the Companys August 2008 sale of a nonstrategic Canadian distilling facility. 37 Table of Contents Crown Imports As this segment is eliminated in consolidation, see Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investments below for a discussion of Crown Imports net sales, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, and operating income. Gross Profit The Companys gross profit decreased to $1,230.0 million for Fiscal 2009 from $1,281.5 million for Fiscal 2008, a decrease of $51.5 million, or (4%). This decrease was driven primarily by an increase in unusual costs, which consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, which were higher by $93.7 million in Fiscal 2009 versus Fiscal 2008. This increase resulted predominantly from (i) an increase in inventory write downs of $83.7 million in Fiscal 2009 in connection primarily with the Companys Australian Initiative of $53.9 million and a loss of $37.0 million on the adjustment of certain inventory, primarily Australian, related to prior years; and (ii) increased flow through of inventory step up of $10.8 million associated primarily with the BWE Acquisition. The Constellation Wines segments gross profit increased $36.3 million primarily due to higher U.S. base branded wine gross profit resulting largely from increased gross profit of $69.5 million due to the BWE Acquisition and the benefit from the Companys Fiscal 2008 distributor wine inventory reduction initiative, partially offset by reduced gross profit in the U.K. largely attributed to the increasing duty and an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $28.7 million. The Constellation Spirits segments gross profit increased $5.9 million primarily due to increased gross profit from the increase in branded spirits net sales. Gross profit as a percent of net sales decreased to 33.7% for Fiscal 2009 from 34.0% for Fiscal 2008 primarily due to the higher unusual costs, partially offset by (i) the benefit of reporting the lower margin U.K. wholesale business under the equity method of accounting for Fiscal 2009, (ii) the benefit from the divestiture of the lower margin Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and the Pacific Northwest wine brands, and (iii) sales of higher margin wine brands acquired in the BWE Acquisition. 38 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $830.4 million for Fiscal 2009 from $807.3 million for Fiscal 2008, an increase of $23.1 million, or 2.9%. This increase is due to an increase in unusual items which consist of certain items that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment of $34.0 million and increases of $8.3 million and $7.9 million in the Constellation Spirits segment and the Corporate Operations and Other segment, respectively, partially offset by a decrease of $27.1 million in the Constellation Wines segment. The increase in unusual items was primarily due to the recognition in Fiscal 2009 of losses of $23.2 million and $15.6 million (discussed previously) in connection with the June 2008 sale of the Pacific Northwest Business and the loss, primarily on assets held for sale, in connection with the March 2009 sale of the value spirits business, respectively, and an increase of $14.3 million in connection with the Companys plan (announced in August 2006) to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the U.K. and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan), partially offset by the loss on the sale of the Companys Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and certain other assets of $27.8 million recognized in Fiscal 2008. The increase in the Constellation Spirits segments selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to increases in general and administrative expenses of $4.6 million, primarily due to losses on foreign currency transactions, and selling expenses of $2.3 million, supporting the growth in net sales. The increase in the Corporate Operations and Other segments selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to higher consulting service fees associated with the Companys review of its businesses and process improvement opportunities and an increase of $6.7 million of stock based compensation expense, partially offset by lower annual management incentive compensation expense. The decrease in the Constellation Wines segments selling, general and administrative expenses is largely due to (i) a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact; and (ii) lower general and administrative expenses resulting primarily from increased cost reduction efforts offset by higher losses on foreign currency transactions. These decreases were partially offset by higher selling expenses within the Constellation Wines segment. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales increased to 22.7% for Fiscal 2009 as compared to 21.4% for Fiscal 2008 primarily due to the higher unusual items, combined with increased losses on foreign currency transactions within the Constellation Wines and Constellation Spirits segments and higher stock based compensation expense, partially offset by the incremental benefit from the BWE Acquisition and the lower annual management incentive compensation expense. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets During Fiscal 2009, the Company recorded impairment losses of $300.4 million, consisting of impairments of goodwill and intangible assets of $252.8 million and $47.6 million, respectively, related primarily to its Constellation Wines segments U.K. reporting unit as more fully discussed in the Overview above. During Fiscal 2008, the Company recorded impairment losses of $812.2 million, consisting of impairments of goodwill and intangible assets of $599.9 million and $212.3 million, respectively, related primarily to its Constellation Wines segments Australian and U.K. reporting units. 39 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges The Company recorded $68.0 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2009 associated primarily with the Australian Initiative. Restructuring charges included $16.5 million of employee termination costs, $3.2 million of contract termination costs, $1.8 million of facility consolidation/relocation costs, and $46.5 million of impairment charges on assets held for sale in Australia. The Company recorded $6.9 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2008 associated primarily with the Companys Fiscal 2008 Plan and the Companys Fiscal 2006 Plan (both as defined below) of $12.0 million, partially offset by the reversal of prior accruals related primarily to the Companys plan to restructure and integrate the operations of Vincor (the Vincor Plan) of $5.1 million. The Fiscal 2008 Plan consists of (i) the Companys plans (announced in November 2007) to streamline certain of its international operations, including the consolidation of certain winemaking and packaging operations in Australia, the buy out of certain grape processing and wine storage contracts in Australia, equipment relocation costs in Australia, and certain employee termination costs; (ii) certain other restructuring charges incurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2008 in connection with the consolidation of certain spirits production processes in the U.S.; and (iii) the Companys plans (announced in January 2008) to streamline certain of its operations in the U.S., primarily in connection with the restructuring and integration of the operations acquired in the BWE Acquisition (the U.S. Initiative). These initiatives are collectively referred to as the Fiscal 2008 Plan. The Fiscal 2006 Plan consists of the Companys worldwide wine reorganizations and the Companys program to consolidate certain west coast production processes in the U.S., both announced during Fiscal 2006. In addition, the Company incurred additional costs for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 in connection with the Companys restructuring and acquisition related integration plans. Total costs incurred in connection with these plans for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 are as follows: Fiscal (in millions) 2009 2008 Cost of Product Sold Inventory write downs $ 56.8 $ 10.1 Accelerated depreciation $ 11.2 $ 12.0 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Other costs $ 24.2 $ 2.2 Impairment of Intangible Assets $ 22.2 $ 7.4 Restructuring Charges $ 68.0 $ 6.9 Acquisition Related Integration Costs (see below) $ 8.2 $ 11.8 40 Table of Contents The Company expects to incur the following costs in connection with its restructuring and acquisition related integration plans for Fiscal 2010, including the Fiscal 2010 Global Initiative discussed previously: Expected Fiscal (in millions) 2010 Cost of Product Sold Accelerated depreciation $ 27.2 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Other costs $ 45.5 Restructuring Charges $ 50.6 Acquisition Related Integration Costs $ 4.4 Acquisition Related Integration Costs Acquisition related integration costs decreased to $8.2 million for Fiscal 2009 from $11.8 million for Fiscal 2008. Acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2009 consisted of costs recorded primarily in connection with the Companys Fiscal 2008 Plan. The Fiscal 2009 costs included $2.5 million of employee related costs and $5.7 million of facilities and other one time costs. Acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2008 consisted of costs recorded primarily in connection with the Vincor Plan. Operating Income (Loss) The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Operating Income (Loss) % Increase 2009 2008 (Decrease) Constellation Wines $ 621.8 $ 558.4 11 % Constellation Spirits 69.6 72.0 (3 )% Corporate Operations and Other (93.4 ) (85.5 ) 9 % Crown Imports 504.1 509.0 (1 )% Consolidations and eliminations (504.1 ) (509.0 ) 1 % Total Reportable Segments 598.0 544.9 10 % Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring Charges and Unusual Costs (575.0 ) (901.6 ) NM Consolidated Operating Income (Loss) $ 23.0 $ (356.7 ) NM NM Not Meaningful 41 Table of Contents As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased to $23.0 million for Fiscal 2009 from a consolidated operating loss of $356.7 million for Fiscal 2008, an increase of $379.7 million. Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual costs of $575.0 million and $901.6 million for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008, respectively, consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs include: Fiscal (in millions) 2009 2008 Cost of Product Sold Flow through of inventory step up $ 22.2 $ 11.4 Inventory write downs 56.8 10.1 Accelerated depreciation 11.2 12.0 Other 37.1 0.1 Cost of Product Sold 127.3 33.6 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Loss on sale of Pacific Northwest Business 23.2 Loss, primarily on assets held for sale, in connection with the March 2009 sale of the value spirits business 15.6 Loss (gain) on sale of non strategic assets 8.1 (4.8 ) Loss on sale of Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and certain other assets 27.8 Loss on the contribution of the U.K. wholesale business 6.6 Other costs 24.2 7.5 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 71.1 37.1 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets 300.4 812.2 Restructuring Charges 68.0 6.9 Acquisition Related Integration Costs 8.2 11.8 Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring Charges and Unusual Costs $ 575.0 $ 901.6 Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees The Companys equity in earnings of equity method investees decreased to $186.6 million in Fiscal 2009 from $257.9 million in Fiscal 2008, a decrease of $71.3 million, or (28%). This decrease is primarily due to $83.3 million of impairment losses recognized in Fiscal 2009 on certain of the Companys international equity method investments, primarily in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 (as more fully discussed in the Overview above) versus a $15.1 million impairment loss recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Net sales for Crown Imports increased slightly to $2,393.2 million for Fiscal 2009 from $2,391.0 million for Fiscal 2008, an increase of $2.2 million, or 1%. Crown Imports gross profit decreased $17.9 million, as the slight increase in net sales was more than offset by a contractual price increase in Mexican beer costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $13.0 million, primarily due to a decrease in advertising spend resulting from timing of marketing activities. Operating income decreased $4.8 million, or (1%), primarily due to these factors. 42 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $3.8 million and $5.7 million, for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008, respectively, decreased to $316.4 million for Fiscal 2009 from $341.8 million for Fiscal 2008, a decrease of $25.4 million, or (7%). This was primarily due to lower average interest rates for Fiscal 2009. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2009 of (182.2%) was driven largely by (i) a non deductible portion of the impairment losses related to goodwill, equity method investments and trademarks of $268.8 million, $83.3 million and $23.6 million, respectively; (ii) the recognition of a valuation allowance of $67.4 million against net operating losses primarily in Australia resulting largely from the Australian Initiative; and (iii) the recognition of income tax expense in connection with the gain on settlement of certain foreign currency economic hedges. The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2008 of (39.2%) was impacted primarily by a non deductible portion of the impairment losses related to goodwill and certain other intangible assets of $599.9 million and $177.0 million, respectively. In addition, the Company recorded a valuation allowance against net operating loss carryforwards in Australia of $51.7 million for Fiscal 2008. Net (Loss) Income As a result of the above factors, net loss decreased to a net loss of $301.4 million for Fiscal 2009 from a net loss of $613.3 million for Fiscal 2008, or $311.9 million. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Net Sales % Increase 2008 2007 (Decrease) Constellation Wines: Branded wine $ 3,016.9 $ 2,755.7 9 % Wholesale and other 341.9 1,087.7 (69 )% Constellation Wines net sales 3,358.8 3,843.4 (13 )% Constellation Spirits net sales 414.2 329.4 26 % Constellation Beers net sales 1,043.6 (100 )% Crown Imports net sales 2,391.0 368.8 NM Consolidations and eliminations (2,391.0 ) (368.8 ) NM Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,773.0 $ 5,216.4 (28 )% 43 Table of Contents Net sales for Fiscal 2008 decreased to $3,773.0 million from $5,216.4 million for Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $1,443.4 million, or (28%). This decrease resulted primarily from a decrease in net sales of $1,043.6 million and $759.8 million for the Crown Imports and Matthew Clark investments, respectively, which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, partially offset by net sales of products acquired in the Vincor Acquisition, Svedka Acquisition and BWE Acquisition of $202.7 million and a favorable foreign currency impact of $133.5 million. Constellation Wines Net sales for Constellation Wines decreased to $3,358.8 million for Fiscal 2008 from $3,843.4 million in Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $484.6 million, or (13%). Branded wine net sales increased $261.2 million primarily due to $140.2 million of net sales of branded wine acquired in the Vincor Acquisition and BWE Acquisition, a favorable foreign currency impact of $108.2 million and a benefit of $55.7 million due to branded wine net sales for the U.K. previously sold through the Companys U.K. wholesale business, partially offset by lower U.S. base branded wine net sales resulting primarily from the Companys implementation of a program to reduce distributor wine inventory levels in the U.S. Wholesale and other net sales decreased $745.8 million primarily due to accounting for the Matthew Clark investment under the equity method of accounting, partially offset by a favorable foreign currency impact of $25.3 million. Constellation Spirits Net sales for Constellation Spirits increased to $414.2 million for Fiscal 2008 from $329.4 million for Fiscal 2007, an increase of $84.8 million, or 26%. This increase resulted primarily from $55.1 million of net sales of branded spirits acquired in the Svedka Acquisition and an increase in base branded spirits net sales of $19.9 million due primarily to higher average selling prices. Constellation Beers Net sales for Constellation Beers decreased $1,043.6 million, or (100%), from Fiscal 2007 as the Crown Imports investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Gross Profit The Companys gross profit decreased to $1,281.5 million for Fiscal 2008 from $1,523.9 million for Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $242.4 million, or (16%). The Constellation Wines segments gross profit increased $4.9 million primarily due to increased gross profit of $58.5 million due to the Vincor Acquisition and BWE Acquisition and a favorable foreign currency impact of $40.6 million, partially offset by a decrease of $77.8 million resulting from accounting for the Matthew Clark investment under the equity method of accounting and lower U.S. base branded wine gross profit resulting from the lower U.S. base branded wine net sales primarily as a result of the Companys program to reduce distributor inventory levels. The Constellation Spirits segments gross profit increased $36.7 million primarily due to increased gross profit of $26.2 million due to the Svedka Acquisition and increased base branded spirits gross profit of $9.0 million resulting from the higher average selling prices. The Constellation Beers segments gross profit was down $290.9 million due to accounting for the Crown Imports investment under the equity method of accounting. In addition, unusual items, which consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, were lower by $6.9 million in Fiscal 2008 versus Fiscal 2007. This decrease resulted primarily from decreased flow through of inventory step up of $18.8 million associated primarily with the Vincor Acquisition, partially offset by an increase in inventory write offs and accelerated depreciation of $9.5 million and $5.4 million, respectively, primarily associated with the Fiscal 2008 Plan. 44 Table of Contents Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased to 34.0% for Fiscal 2008 from 29.2% for Fiscal 2007 primarily due to the benefit of reporting the lower margin U.K. wholesale and imported beer businesses under the equity method of accounting, partially offset by (i) lower margins in the U.S. base branded wine business primarily due to the distributor inventory reduction program and (ii) lower margins in the U.K. branded wine business primarily due to the Companys absorption of increased duty costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $807.3 million for Fiscal 2008 from $768.8 million for Fiscal 2007, an increase of $38.5 million, or 5%. This increase is due to an increase of $76.4 million in the Constellation Wines segment, an increase of $30.2 million in the Constellation Spirits segment, and an increase of $24.6 million in Corporate Operations and Other, partially offset by a $82.8 million decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses within the Constellation Beers segment as the Crown Imports investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and a reduction in unusual costs which consist of certain items that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment of $9.9 million. The increase in the Constellation Wines segments selling, general and administrative expenses is due to increased general and administrative expenses of $43.2 million, advertising expenses of $20.4 million and selling expenses of $12.8 million resulting primarily from the Vincor Acquisition and BWE Acquisition and the recognition of an additional $6.5 million of stock based compensation expense. The increase in the Constellation Spirits segments selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to increases in advertising expenses of $14.0 million and selling expenses of $11.8 million resulting primarily from the Svedka Acquisition. The Corporate Operations and Other segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to increased general and administrative expenses to support the Companys growth and the recognition of additional stock based compensation expense in Fiscal 2008 of $6.8 million. The decrease in unusual costs was primarily due to the recognition in Fiscal 2008 of (i) $35.3 million of other costs associated primarily with the loss on the sale of the Companys Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and certain other assets and (ii) a $6.6 million loss in connection with the contribution of the Companys U.K. wholesale business to the Matthew Clark joint venture, net of a $4.8 million realized gain on a prior asset sale; partially offset by the recognition in Fiscal 2007 of (i) $16.3 million of other costs associated with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan (as defined below in Restructuring Charges) (primarily from the write down of an Australian winery and certain Australian vineyards to fair value less cost to sell) and the Fiscal 2006 Plan, (ii) a $13.4 million loss on the sale of the Companys branded bottled water business resulting from the write off of $27.7 million of non deductible intangible assets, primarily goodwill, (iii) financing costs of $11.9 million related primarily to the Companys new senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Vincor Acquisition and (iv) foreign currency losses of $5.4 million on foreign denominated intercompany loan balances associated with the Vincor Acquisition. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales increased to 21.4% for Fiscal 2008 as compared to 14.7% for Fiscal 2007 primarily due to (i) the reporting of the imported beer and U.K. wholesale businesses under the equity method of accounting, (ii) the percent increase in general and administrative expenses supporting the Companys growth within the Corporate Operations and Other segment and the Constellation Wines segment growing at a faster rate than the increase in the respective segments net sales (including a combined increase of $13.3 million of stock based compensation expense for those segments) and (iii) the lower net sales associated with the reduction in the distributor wine inventory levels without a corresponding decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses within the U.S. branded wine business. 45 Table of Contents Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company recorded $812.2 million of impairment losses for Fiscal 2008, consisting of impairments of goodwill and intangible assets of $599.9 million and $212.3 million, respectively, related primarily to its Constellation Wines segments Australian and U.K. reporting units. Restructuring Charges The Company recorded $6.9 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2008 associated primarily with the Companys Fiscal 2008 Plan and the Fiscal 2006 Plan of $12.0 million, partially offset by the reversal of prior accruals related primarily to the Vincor Plan of $5.1 million. Restructuring charges included $10.2 million of employee termination benefit costs, ($3.4) million of contract termination costs and $0.1 million of facility consolidation/relocation costs. The Company recorded $32.5 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2007 associated primarily with the Companys Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan and Fiscal 2006 Plan. In addition, the Company incurred additional costs for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 in connection with the Companys restructuring and acquisition related integration plans. Total costs incurred in connection with the Companys restructuring and acquisition related integration plans for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 are as follows: Fiscal (in millions) 2008 2007 Cost of Product Sold Inventory write downs $ 10.1 $ 0.6 Accelerated depreciation $ 12.0 $ 6.6 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Other costs $ 2.2 $ 16.3 Impairment of Intangible Assets $ 7.4 $ Restructuring Charges $ 6.9 $ 32.5 Acquisition Related Integration Costs (see below) $ 11.8 $ 23.6 Acquisition Related Integration Costs Acquisition related integration costs decreased to $11.8 million for Fiscal 2008 from $23.6 million for Fiscal 2007. Acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2008 consisted of costs recorded primarily in connection with the Companys Vincor Plan and the Fiscal 2008 Plan. These costs included $4.8 million of employee related costs and $7.0 million of facilities and other costs. Acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2007 consisted of costs recorded primarily in connection with the Vincor Plan. 46 Table of Contents Operating (Loss) Income The following table sets forth the operating (loss) income (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Operating (Loss) Income % Increase 2008 2007 (Decrease) Constellation Wines $ 558.4 $ 629.9 (11 )% Constellation Spirits 72.0 65.5 10 % Constellation Beers 208.1 (100 )% Corporate Operations and Other (85.5 ) (60.9 ) 40 % Crown Imports 509.0 78.4 NM Consolidations and eliminations (509.0 ) (78.4 ) NM Total Reportable Segments 544.9 842.6 (35 )% Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring Charges and Unusual Costs (901.6 ) (143.6 ) 528 % Consolidated Operating (Loss) Income $ (356.7 ) $ 699.0 (151 )% As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating (loss) income decreased to an operating loss of $356.7 million for Fiscal 2008 from operating income of $699.0 million for Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $1,055.7 million, or (151%). Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual costs of $901.6 million and $143.6 million for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, respectively, consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs include: 47 Table of Contents Fiscal (in millions) 2008 2007 Cost of Product Sold Flow through of inventory step up $ 11.4 $ 30.2 Inventory write downs 10.1 0.6 Accelerated depreciation 12.0 6.6 Other 0.1 3.1 Cost of Product Sold 33.6 40.5 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Gain on sale of non strategic asset (4.8 ) Loss on sale of Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and certain other assets 27.8 Loss on the contribution of the U.K. wholesale business 6.6 Loss on sale of the branded bottled water business 13.4 Financing costs 11.9 Foreign currency losses on foreign denominated intercompany loan balances 5.4 Other costs 7.5 16.3 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 37.1 47.0 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets 812.2 Restructuring Charges 6.9 32.5 Acquisition Related Integration Costs 11.8 23.6 Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring Charges and Unusual Costs $ 901.6 $ 143.6 Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees The Companys equity in earnings of equity method investees increased to $257.9 million in Fiscal 2008 from $49.9 million in Fiscal 2007. This increase is primarily due to the January 2, 2007, consummation of the Crown Imports joint venture and the reporting of the results of operations of that joint venture since that date under the equity method of accounting of $255.1 million. Gain on Change in Fair Value of Derivative Instrument In April 2006, the Company entered into a foreign currency forward contract in connection with the Vincor Acquisition to fix the U.S. dollar cost of the acquisition and the payment of certain outstanding indebtedness. For Fiscal 2007, the Company recorded a gain of $55.1 million in connection with this derivative instrument. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, a transaction that involves a business combination is not eligible for hedge accounting treatment. As such, the gain was recognized separately on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 48 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $5.7 million and $5.4 million, for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, respectively, increased to $341.8 million for Fiscal 2008 from $268.7 million for Fiscal 2007, an increase of $73.1 million, or 27%. The increase resulted primarily from higher average borrowings in Fiscal 2008 as a result of the funding of the Vincor Acquisition, Svedka Acquisition and BWE Acquisition, and the $500.0 million of share repurchases, partially offset by $185.6 million of net proceeds from the formation of the U.K. wholesale joint venture. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate was (39.2%) for Fiscal 2008 as compared to 38.0% for Fiscal 2007. The change in the Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2008 is primarily due to a non deductible portion of the impairment losses related to goodwill and certain other intangible assets of $599.9 million and $177.0 million, respectively. In addition, the Company recorded a valuation allowance against net operating loss carryforwards in Australia of $51.7 million for Fiscal 2008. In Fiscal 2007, the Company sold its branded bottled water business that resulted in the write off of $27.7 million of non deductible intangible assets, primarily goodwill. The provision for income taxes on the sale of the branded bottled water business increased the Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2007. Net (Loss) Income As a result of the above factors, net (loss) income decreased to a net loss of $613.3 million for Fiscal 2008 from net income of $331.9 million for Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $945.2 million. Financial Liquidity and Capital Resources General The Companys principal use of cash in its operating activities is for purchasing and carrying inventories and carrying seasonal accounts receivable. The Companys primary source of liquidity has historically been cash flow from operations, except during annual grape harvests when the Company has relied on short term borrowings. In the U.S. and Canada, the annual grape crush normally begins in August and runs through October. In Australia and New Zealand, the annual grape crush normally begins in February and runs through May. The Company generally begins taking delivery of grapes at the beginning of the crush season with payments for such grapes beginning to come due one month later. The Companys short term borrowings to support such purchases generally reach their highest levels one to two months after the crush season has ended. Historically, the Company has used cash flow from operating activities to repay its short term borrowings and fund capital expenditures. The Company will continue to use its short term borrowings to support its working capital requirements. The global credit crisis has imposed exceptional levels of volatility in the capital markets, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, and increased counterparty risk. Nevertheless, the Company has maintained adequate liquidity to meet current working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures, repay scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, and prepay certain future principal payments on debt. Absent further severe deterioration of market conditions, the Company believes that cash provided by operating activities and its financing activities, primarily short term borrowings, will provide adequate resources to satisfy its working capital, scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, and anticipated capital expenditure requirements for both its short term and long term capital needs. 49 Table of Contents As of April 20, 2009, the Company had $707.5 million in revolving loans available to be drawn under its 2006 Credit Agreement. The member financial institutions participating in the Companys 2006 Credit Agreement have complied with prior funding requests and the Company believes the member financial institutions will comply with ongoing funding requests. However, there can be no assurances that any particular financial institution will continue to do so in the future. Fiscal 2009 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2009 was $506.9 million, which resulted primarily from a net loss of $301.4 million of net income, plus $748.0 million of net non cash items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Operations and $159.3 million of other, net, less $99.0 million representing the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities. The net non cash items consisted primarily of impairment losses of goodwill and intangible assets; depreciation of property, plant and equipment; equity in earnings of equity method investees, net of distributed earnings; and the write down of inventory in Australia. The net change in operating assets and liabilities resulted primarily from an increase in inventories of $86.0 million and a decrease in other accrued expenses and liabilities of $95.0 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $87.4 million. The offsetting increase in inventories and decrease in accounts receivable are both attributable primarily to lower net sales for the Companys fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 compared to the Companys fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. The decrease in other accrued expenses and liabilities is primarily attributable to an increase in cash paid for income taxes. Other, net, consisted primarily of (i) cash proceeds of $94.8 million from the gain on settlement of certain foreign currency hedges which were designed to economically hedge foreign currency risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated intercompany balances; (ii) cash proceeds of $27.5 million for tenant allowances received in connection with the Companys 19.5 year lease of a new warehousing and production facility in the U.K. as part of the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan; (iii) $11.5 million of non cash losses on certain foreign currency denominated intercompany balances, net of non cash gains on certain foreign currency hedges which were designed to economically hedge foreign currency risk associated with these certain foreign currency denominated intercompany balances and (iv) a $9.1 million non cash loss associated with the settlement of pension and postretirement liabilities as a result of the sale of a nonstrategic Canadian distilling facility; and (v) $7.4 million of non cash losses on contractual obligations recorded in connection with the sale of the Pacific Northwest Business. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for Fiscal 2009 was $128.6 million, which resulted primarily from the proceeds from the sale of the Pacific Northwest Business of $204.2 million, net of direct costs to sell, less $128.6 million of capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for Fiscal 2009 was $647.4 million resulting primarily from principal payments of long term debt of $577.6 million and net repayment of notes payable of $109.7 million. 50 Table of Contents Fiscal 2008 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2008 was $519.8 million, which resulted primarily from a net loss of $613.3 million and net payments of $32.1 million associated with the change in operating assets and liabilities (net of effects from purchases and sales of businesses), partially offset by $1,165.2 million of net non cash items charged to the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily driven by a $37.8 million increase in inventories and $29.2 million of other items, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable, net, of $56.2 million. The increase in inventories was due primarily to a delay in the release of the Canadian icewine vintage and an increase in U.S. wine inventory balances as a result of the Companys program to reduce distributor wine inventory levels. The other items consist primarily of $24.7 million of losses on cash settlement of derivative instruments designed to economically hedge foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated intercompany balances. These losses offset non cash gains in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations associated with the foreign currency denominated intercompany balances. The decrease in accounts receivable, net, is due to lower U.S. sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 in connection with the Companys program to reduce distributor wine inventory levels and collection of accounts receivable balances acquired in the BWE Acquisition, partially offset by increased U.K. accounts receivable in connection with sales to Matthew Clark. The net non cash items consisted primarily of impairment losses of goodwill and intangible assets, depreciation of property, plant and equipment and deferred tax provision. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for Fiscal 2008 was $1,112.9 million, which resulted primarily from the use of $1,274.1 million, net of cash acquired, for the Svedka Acquisition and BWE Acquisition, and $143.8 million of capital expenditures, partially offset by $185.6 million of net proceeds from the formation of the U.K. wholesale joint venture and $133.7 million from the sale of the Companys Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and certain other assets. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for Fiscal 2008 was $584.9 million resulting primarily from proceeds from issuance of long term debt of $1,212.9 million and from notes payable of $219.4 million, partially offset by purchases of treasury stock of $500.0 million and principal payments of long term debt of $374.9 million. 51 Table of Contents Share Repurchase Programs During February 2006, the Companys Board of Directors replenished a June 1998 Board of Directors authorization to repurchase up to $100.0 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common Stock. During Fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased 3,894,978 shares of Class A Common Stock at an aggregate cost of $100.0 million, or at an average cost of $25.67 per share. The Company used revolver borrowings under the June 2006 Credit Agreement to pay the purchase price for these shares. During February 2007, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500.0 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common Stock. During Fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased 21,332,468 shares of Class A Common Stock pursuant to this authorization at an aggregate cost of $500.0 million, or an average cost of $23.44 per share, through a combination of open market transactions and an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) transaction that was announced in May 2007. The repurchased shares include 933,206 shares of Class A Common Stock that were received by the Company in July 2007 in connection with the early termination of the calculation period for the ASR transaction by the counterparty to the ASR transaction. The Company used revolver borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreement to pay the purchase price for the repurchased shares. The repurchased shares have become treasury shares. Debt Total debt outstanding as of February 28, 2009, amounted to $4,433.6 million, a decrease of $823.9 million from February 29, 2008. The ratio of total debt to total capitalization increased to 69.9% as of February 28, 2009, from 65.5% as of February 29, 2008. The increase is attributable primarily to the foreign currency impact on the Companys total capitalization. Senior Credit Facility 2006 Credit Agreement In connection with the Vincor Acquisition, on June 5, 2006, the Company and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a lender and administrative agent, and certain other agents, lenders, and financial institutions entered into a new credit agreement (the June 2006 Credit Agreement). On February 23, 2007, and on November 19, 2007, the June 2006 Credit Agreement was amended (collectively, the 2007 Amendments). The June 2006 Credit Agreement together with the 2007 Amendments is referred to as the 2006 Credit Agreement. The 2006 Credit Agreement provides for aggregate credit facilities of $3.9 billion, consisting of a $1.2 billion tranche A term loan facility due in June 2011, a $1.8 billion tranche B term loan facility due in June 2013, and a $900 million revolving credit facility (including a sub facility for letters of credit of up to $200 million) which terminates in June 2011. Proceeds of the June 2006 Credit Agreement were used to pay off the Companys obligations under its prior senior credit facility, to fund the Vincor Acquisition and to repay certain indebtedness of Vincor. The Company uses its revolving credit facility under the 2006 Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes, including working capital, on an as needed basis. 52 Table of Contents As of February 28, 2009, the required principal repayments of the tranche A term loan and the tranche B term loan for each of the five succeeding fiscal years are as follows: Tranche A Tranche B (in millions) Term Loan Term Loan Total 2010 $ $ $ 2011 225.0 4.0 229.0 2012 150.0 4.0 154.0 2013 714.0 714.0 2014 712.0 712.0 $ 375.0 $ 1,434.0 $ 1,809.0 The rate of interest on borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreement is a function of LIBOR plus a margin, the federal funds rate plus a margin, or the prime rate plus a margin. The margin is adjustable based upon the Companys debt ratio (as defined in the 2006 Credit Agreement) with respect to the tranche A term loan facility and the revolving credit facility. The margin is fixed with respect to the tranche B term loan facility. As of February 28, 2009, the LIBOR margin for the tranche A term loan facility and the revolving credit facility is currently at the maximum rate of 1.25%, while the LIBOR margin on the tranche B term loan facility is 1.50%. The February 23, 2007, amendment amended the June 2006 Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) increase the revolving credit facility from $500.0 million to $900.0 million, which increased the aggregate credit facilities from $3.5 billion to $3.9 billion; (ii) increase the aggregate amount of cash payments the Company is permitted to make in respect or on account of its capital stock; (iii) remove certain limitations on the incurrence of senior unsecured indebtedness and the application of proceeds thereof; (iv) increase the maximum permitted total Debt Ratio and decrease the required minimum Interest Coverage Ratio; and (v) eliminate the Senior Debt Ratio covenant and the Fixed Charges Ratio covenant. The November 19, 2007, amendment clarified certain provisions governing the incurrence of senior unsecured indebtedness and the application of proceeds thereof under the June 2006 Credit Agreement, as previously amended. The Companys obligations are guaranteed by certain of its U.S. subsidiaries. These obligations are also secured by a pledge of (i) 100% of the ownership interests in certain of the Companys U.S. subsidiaries and (ii) 65% of the voting capital stock of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to covenants that are contained in the 2006 Credit Agreement, including those restricting the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including guarantees of indebtedness), additional liens, mergers and consolidations, disposition or acquisition of property, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates and the making of certain investments, in each case subject to numerous conditions, exceptions and thresholds. The financial covenants are limited to maximum total debt coverage ratios and minimum interest coverage ratios. As of February 28, 2009, under the 2006 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding tranche A term loans of $375.0 million bearing an interest rate of 2.2%, tranche B term loans of $1,434.0 million bearing an interest rate of 3.3%, revolving loans of $67.2 million bearing an interest rate of 1.7%, outstanding letters of credit of $32.0 million, and $800.8 million in revolving loans available to be drawn. 53 Table of Contents Subsequent to February 28, 2009, the Company used proceeds from the sales of certain assets, including proceeds from the March 2009 sale of its value spirits business, to prepay $260.0 million on the Companys tranche A and tranche B term loans under the 2006 Credit Agreement. As of April 20, 2009, under the 2006 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding tranche A term loans of $321.0 million bearing an interest rate of 2.0%, tranche B term loans of $1,228.0 million bearing an interest rate of 2.7%, revolving loans of $160.0 million bearing an interest rate of 1.7%, outstanding letters of credit of $32.5 million, and $707.5 million in revolving loans available to be drawn. In March 2005, the Company replaced its then outstanding five year interest rate swap agreements with new five year delayed start interest rate swap agreements effective March 1, 2006, which are outstanding as of February 28, 2009. These delayed start interest rate swap agreements extended the original hedged period through Fiscal 2010. The swap agreements fixed LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% over the five year term. The Company received $30.3 million in proceeds from the unwinding of the original swaps. This amount is being reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) ratably into earnings in the same period in which the original hedged item is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008, the Company reclassified $12.6 million and $7.1 million, net of income tax effect, respectively, from AOCI to interest expense, net on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. This non cash operating activity is included in the other, net line in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Senior Notes In February 2001, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8% Senior Notes due February 2008 (the February 2001 Senior Notes). On February 15, 2008, the Company repaid the February 2001 Senior Notes with proceeds from its revolving credit facility under the 2006 Credit Agreement. As of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding 1.0 million ($1.4 million) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series B Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series B Senior Notes). In addition, as of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding 154.0 million ($220.5 million, net of $0.1 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series C Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series C Senior Notes). On August 15, 2006, the Company issued $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due September 2016 at an issuance price of $693.1 million (net of $6.9 million unamortized discount, with an effective interest rate of 7.4%) (the August 2006 Senior Notes). The net proceeds of the offering ($685.6 million) were used to reduce a corresponding amount of borrowings under the Companys June 2006 Credit Agreement. As of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding $694.4 million (net of $5.6 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of August 2006 Senior Notes. On May 14, 2007, the Company issued $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due May 2017 (the Original May 2007 Senior Notes). The net proceeds of the offering ($693.9 million) were used to reduce a corresponding amount of borrowings under the revolving portion of the Companys 2006 Credit Agreement. In January 2008, the Company exchanged $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due May 2017 (the May 2007 Senior Notes) for all of the Original May 2007 Senior Notes. The terms of the May 2007 Senior Notes are substantially identical in all material respects to the Original May 2007 Senior Notes, except that the May 2007 Senior Notes are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of May 2007 Senior Notes. 54 Table of Contents On December 5, 2007, the Company issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 3/8% Senior Notes due December 2014 at an issuance price of $496.7 million (net of $3.3 million unamortized discount, with an effective interest rate of 8.5%) (the December 2007 Senior Notes). The net proceeds of the offering ($492.2 million) were used to fund a portion of the purchase price of BWE. As of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding $497.2 million (net of $2.8 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of December 2007 Senior Notes. The senior notes described above are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the outstanding principal amount and a make whole payment based on the present value of the future payments at the adjusted Treasury Rate or adjusted Gilt rate plus 50 basis points. The senior notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment to all existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness of the Company. Certain of the Companys significant U.S. operating subsidiaries guarantee the senior notes, on a senior unsecured basis. Senior Subordinated Notes As of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due January 2012 (the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes). The January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes are currently redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company. Subsidiary Credit Facilities In addition to the above arrangements, the Company has additional credit arrangements totaling $334.6 million as of February 28, 2009. These arrangements primarily support the financing needs of the Companys domestic and foreign subsidiary operations. Interest rates and other terms of these borrowings vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions. As of February 28, 2009, amounts outstanding under these arrangements were $193.9 million. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table sets forth information about the Companys long term contractual obligations outstanding at February 28, 2009. The table brings together data for easy reference from the consolidated balance sheet and from individual notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Notes 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of the items noted in the following table. 55 Table of Contents PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD Less than After (in millions) Total 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years 5 years Contractual obligations Notes payable to banks $ 227.3 $ 227.3 $ $ $ Interest payments on notes payable to banks(1) 6.3 6.3 Long term debt (excluding unamortized discount) 4,214.8 235.3 648.9 1,429.1 1,901.5 Interest payments on long term debt(2) 1,405.8 278.1 425.5 330.5 371.7 Operating leases 568.8 75.1 117.1 78.6 298.0 Other long term liabilities(3) 306.9 148.5 85.6 28.7 44.1 Unconditional purchase obligations(4) 2,198.9 425.5 656.5 379.0 737.9 Total contractual obligations $ 8,928.8 $ 1,396.1 $ 1,933.6 $ 2,245.9 $ 3,353.2 (1) Interest payments on notes payable to banks include interest on both revolving loans under the Companys senior credit facility and on foreign subsidiary credit facilities. The weighted average interest rate on the revolving loans under the Companys senior credit facility was 1.7% as of February 28, 2009. Interest rates on foreign subsidiary credit facilities range from 1.1% to 5.0% as of February 28, 2009. (2) Interest rates on long term debt obligations range from 3.1% to 8.5%. Interest payments on long term debt obligations include amounts associated with the Companys outstanding interest rate swap agreements to fix LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt. Interest payments on long term debt do not include interest related to capital lease obligations or certain foreign credit arrangements, which represent approximately 0.8% of the Companys total long term debt, as amounts are not material. (3) Other long term liabilities include $35.4 million associated with expected payments for unrecognized tax benefit liabilities as of February 28, 2009, including $21.4 million in the less than one year period. The payments are reflected in the period in which the Company believes they will ultimately be settled based on the Companys experience in these matters. Other long term liabilities do not include payments for unrecognized tax benefit liabilities of $101.3 million due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. In addition, other long term liabilities do not include expected payments for interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax benefit liabilities as amounts are not material. See Note 11 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of these items. (4) Total unconditional purchase obligations consist of $16.1 million for contracts to purchase various spirits over the next four fiscal years, $1,941.1 million for contracts to purchase grapes over the next sixteen fiscal years, $49.2 million for contracts to purchase bulk wine over the next four fiscal years, $163.1 million for a contract to purchase a certain raw material over the next three fiscal years and $29.4 million for processing contracts over the next four fiscal years. See Note 14 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of these items. Capital Expenditures During Fiscal 2009, the Company incurred $128.6 million for capital expenditures. The Company plans to spend from $150.0 million to $170.0 million for capital expenditures in Fiscal 2010. Included within the planned expenditures for Fiscal 2010 are amounts associated with the Companys initiative relating to the implementation of a comprehensive, multi year program that will strengthen and enhance the Companys global business capabilities and processes through the creation of an integrated technology platform to improve the accessibility of information and visibility of global data. Management reviews the capital expenditure program periodically and modifies it as required to meet current business needs. 56 Table of Contents Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices The Companys results of operations and financial condition have not been significantly affected by inflation and changing prices. The Company intends to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices and identifying on going cost savings initiatives, subject to normal competitive conditions. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will be able to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices. Critical Accounting Policies The Companys significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. However, certain of the Companys accounting policies are particularly important to the portrayal of the Companys financial position and results of operations and require the application of significant judgment by the Companys management; as a result they are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. In applying those policies, the Companys management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. Those estimates are based on the Companys historical experience, the Companys observance of trends in the industry, information provided by the Companys customers and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. On an ongoing basis, the Company reviews its estimates to ensure that they appropriately reflect changes in the Companys business. The Companys critical accounting policies include: Accounting for promotional activities. Sales reflect reductions attributable to consideration given to customers in various customer incentive programs, including pricing discounts on single transactions, volume discounts, promotional and advertising allowances, coupons, and rebates. Certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the cost of those programs. The accrued liability for these programs is determined through analysis of programs offered, historical trends, expectations regarding customer and consumer participation, sales and payment trends, and experience with payment patterns associated with similar programs that had been previously offered. If assumptions included in the Companys estimates were to change or market conditions were to change, then material incremental reductions to revenue could be required, which would have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. Promotional costs were $712.1 million, $733.7 million and $635.6 million for Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, respectively. Accrued promotion costs were $100.3 million and $143.9 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. Inventory valuation. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being determined on the first in, first out method. The Company assesses the valuation of its inventories and reduces the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of the Companys forecasted usage to their estimated net realizable value. The Company estimates the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements. Reductions to the carrying value of inventories are recorded in cost of product sold. If the future demand for the Companys products is less favorable than the Companys forecasts, then the value of the inventories may be required to be reduced, which could result in material additional expense to the Company and have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. Inventories were $1,828.7 million and $2,179.5 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. 57 Table of Contents Accounting for business combinations. The acquisition of businesses is an important element of the Companys strategy. Under the purchase method, the Company is required to record the net assets acquired at the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The determination of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Companys financial statements. For example, the Companys acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets; the value and estimated life of those assets may affect the amount of future period amortization expense for intangible assets with finite lives as well as possible impairment charges that may be incurred. Amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets was $6.8 million, $4.8 million and $2.8 million for Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, respectively. Amortizable intangible assets were $75.7 million and $68.5 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Intangible assets with indefinite lives consist primarily of trademarks. The Company is required to analyze its goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis as well as when events and circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Certain factors that may occur and indicate that an impairment exists include, but are not limited to, operating results that are lower than expected and adverse industry or market economic trends. The impairment testing requires management to estimate the fair value of the assets, including the reporting unit goodwill, and record an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. The estimate of fair value of the intangible assets is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows. The estimate of fair value of the reporting unit is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows supplemented by the market approach. In estimating the fair value, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as future cash flows, future revenues, future earnings and other factors. The assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are generally consistent with the past performance of each reporting unit and other intangible assets and are also consistent with the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. The recording of any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. The most significant assumptions used in the discounted future cash flows calculation to determine the fair value of the Companys reporting units and the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives in connection with impairment testing are: (i) the discount rate, (ii) the expected long term growth rate and (iii) the annual cash flow projections. If the Company used a discount rate that was 50 basis points higher or used an expected long term growth rate that was 50 basis points lower or used annual cash flow projections that were 100 basis points lower in its impairment testing of goodwill, then the changes individually, for only the discount rate and the expected long term growth rate, would have resulted in the carrying value of the net assets of one of the reporting units, including its goodwill, exceeding its fair value, which would indicate the potential for impairment and the requirement to measure the amount of impairment, if any. If the Company used a discount rate that was 50 basis points higher or used an expected long term growth rate that was 50 basis points lower or used annual cash flow projections that were 100 basis points lower in its impairment testing of intangible assets with indefinite lives, then the changes individually, for only the discount rate, would have resulted in one unit of accountings carrying value exceeding its fair value. 58 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis. As a result of this analysis, the Company concluded that the carrying amount of goodwill assigned to the Constellation Wines segments U.K. reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value and recorded an impairment loss of $252.7 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, as a result of its annual goodwill impairment analysis, the Company concluded that the carrying amounts of goodwill assigned to the Constellation Wines segments Australian and U.K. reporting units exceeded their implied fair values and recorded impairment losses of $599.9 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. No impairment losses of goodwill were recorded for Fiscal 2007. Goodwill was $2,615.0 million and $3,123.9 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company performed its review of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company determined that certain trademarks associated primarily with the Constellation Wines segments U.K. reporting unit were impaired. Accordingly, the Company recorded impairment losses of $25.9 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company determined that certain intangible assets associated with the Constellation Wines segment, primarily trademarks, were impaired. Accordingly, the Company recorded additional impairment losses of $204.9 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company recorded an immaterial impairment loss for Fiscal 2007 for intangible assets with indefinite lives associated with assets held for sale. Intangible assets with indefinite lives were $924.9 million and $1,121.5 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. 59 Table of Contents Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. The Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method on March 1, 2006. Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), stock based compensation cost is calculated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense, net of estimated pre vesting forfeitures, ratably over the vesting period of the award. In addition, SFAS No. 123(R) requires additional accounting related to the income tax effects and disclosure regarding the cash flow effects resulting from stock based payment arrangements. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107, which provided supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS No. 123(R). The Company selected the Black Scholes option pricing model as the most appropriate fair value method for its awards granted after March 1, 2006. The calculation of fair value of stock based awards requires the input of assumptions, including the expected term of the stock based awards and the associated stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock based awards represent the Companys best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, then stock based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. If the Company used an expected term for its stock based awards that was one year longer, the fair value of stock based awards granted during Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 would have increased by $22.5 million, resulting in an increase of $4.6 million of stock based compensation expense for Fiscal 2009. If the Company used an expected term of the stock based awards that was one year shorter, the fair value of the stock based awards granted during Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 would have decreased by $23.4 million, resulting in a decrease of $4.8 million of stock based compensation expense for Fiscal 2009. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for Fiscal 2009 was $47.5 million, of which $42.9 million was expensed for Fiscal 2009 and $4.6 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 28, 2009. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for Fiscal 2008 was $33.6 million, of which $30.4 million was expensed for Fiscal 2008 and $3.2 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 29, 2008. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for Fiscal 2007 was $18.1 million, of which $16.5 million was expensed for Fiscal 2007 and $1.6 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 28, 2007. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007) (SFAS No. 141(R)), Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141(R), among other things, establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination (i) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired business, (ii) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase, and (iii) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 141(R) for all business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after March 1, 2009. The adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) on March 1, 2009, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 60 Table of Contents In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160 (SFAS No. 160), Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements An Amendment of ARB No. 51. SFAS No. 160 amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (ARB No. 51), Consolidated Financial Statements, to establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. This statement also amends certain of ARB No. 51s consolidation procedures for consistency with the requirements of SFAS No. 141(R). In addition, SFAS No. 160 also includes expanded disclosure requirements regarding the interests of the parent and its noncontrolling interest. The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 160 for fiscal years beginning March 1, 2009. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 on March 1, 2009, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 142 3, (FSP No. 142 3), Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets. FSP No. 142 3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (SFAS No. 142), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The intent of FSP No. 142 3 is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS No. 141(R) and other U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. FSP No. 142 3 is effective for the Company as of March 1, 2009. The adoption of FSP No. 142 3 on March 1, 2009, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements and will be applied prospectively to future business combinations. 61 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company, as a result of its global operating, acquisition and financing activities, is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To manage the volatility relating to these risks, the Company periodically purchases and or sells derivative instruments including foreign currency forward and option contracts and interest rate swap agreements. The Company uses derivative instruments solely to reduce the financial impact of these risks and does not use derivative instruments for trading purposes. Foreign currency derivative instruments are or may be used to hedge existing foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, forecasted foreign currency denominated sales/purchases to/from third parties as well as intercompany sales/purchases, intercompany principal and interest payments, and in connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the U.S. As of February 28, 2009, the Company had exposures to foreign currency risk primarily related to the Australian dollar, euro, New Zealand dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and South African rand. As of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, the Company had outstanding foreign currency derivative instruments with a notional value of $1,719.4 million and $2,473.5 million, respectively. Approximately 73% of the Companys total exposures were hedged as of February 28, 2009. The estimated fair value of the Companys foreign currency derivative instruments was $7.6 million and $6.3 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. Using a sensitivity analysis based on estimated fair value of open contracts using forward rates, if the contract base currency had been 10% weaker as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, the fair value of open foreign currency contracts would have been decreased by $40.4 million and $155.2 million, respectively. Losses or gains from the revaluation or settlement of the related underlying positions would substantially offset such gains or losses on the derivative instruments. The fair value of fixed rate debt is subject to interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk. The estimated fair value of the Companys total fixed rate debt, including current maturities, was $2,353.3 million and $2,507.2 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of fixed interest rate long term debt by $107.9 million and $124.7 million, respectively. As of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, the Company had outstanding interest rate swap agreements to minimize interest rate volatility. The swap agreements fix LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% through Fiscal 2010. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, would have increased the fair value of the interest rate swaps by $9.3 million and $23.6 million, respectively. In addition to the $2,353.3 million and $2,507.2 million estimated fair value of fixed rate debt outstanding as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively, the Company also had variable rate debt outstanding (primarily LIBOR based) as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, of $2,036.4 million and $2,749.5 million, respectively. Using a sensitivity analysis based on a hypothetical 1% increase in prevailing interest rates over a 12 month period, the approximate increase in cash required for interest as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, is $20.4 million and $27.5 million, respectively. 62 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Overview The Company is the largest wine company in the world with a strong portfolio of consumer preferred premium wine brands complemented by spirits, imported beer and other select beverage alcohol products. The Company continues to supply imported beer in the United States (U.S.) through its investment in a joint venture with Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (Modelo). This imported beers joint venture operates as Crown Imports LLC and is referred to hereinafter as Crown Imports. As a result of their joint venture transactions, the Company and Modelo, through their affiliates, each have equal interests in Crown Imports and have appointed an equal number of directors to the Board of Directors of Crown Imports. Crown Imports commenced operations on January 2, 2007. The Company has the largest wine business in the world and is the largest premium wine company in the U.S.; a leading producer and exporter of wine from Australia and New Zealand; the largest producer and marketer of wine in Canada; and both a major supplier of beverage alcohol and, through its investment in Matthew Clark (see Equity Method Investment in Fiscal 2008 below), a major independent drinks wholesaler in the United Kingdom (U.K.). Through January 1, 2007, the Company reported its operating results in three segments: Constellation Wines (branded wines, and U.K. wholesale and other), Constellation Beers and Spirits (imported beers and distilled spirits) and Corporate Operations and Other. As a result of the Companys investment in Crown Imports, the Company changed its internal management financial reporting to consist of three business divisions: Constellation Wines, Constellation Spirits and Crown Imports. Prior to the investment in Crown Imports, the Companys internal management financial reporting included the Constellation Beers business division. Consequently, the Company reports its operating results in five segments: Constellation Wines (branded wine, and wholesale and other), Constellation Spirits (distilled spirits), Constellation Beers (imported beer), Corporate Operations and Other and Crown Imports (imported beer). Segment results for Constellation Beers are for the period prior to January 2, 2007, and segment results for Crown Imports are for the period on and after January 2, 2007. Amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment consist of general corporate administration and finance expenses. These amounts include costs of executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global supply chain. Any costs incurred at the corporate office that are applicable to the segments are allocated to the appropriate segment. The amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment are general costs that are applicable to the consolidated group and are therefore not allocated to the other reportable segments. All costs reported within the Corporate Operations and Other segment are not included in the chief operating decision makers evaluation of the operating income performance of the other reportable segments. 28 Table of Contents In addition, the Company excludes acquisition related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual items that affect comparability from its definition of operating income for segment purposes as these items are not reflective of normal continuing operations of the segments. The Company excludes these items as segment operating performance and segment management compensation is evaluated based upon a normalized segment operating income. As such, the performance measures for incentive compensation purposes for segment management do not include the impact of these items. The Companys business strategy is to remain focused on consumer preferred premium wine brands, complemented by premium spirits and imported beers. The Company intends to continue to invest in fast growing premium product categories and geographic markets and expects to capitalize on its size and scale in the marketplace to profitably grow the business. The Company remains committed to its long term financial model of growing sales (both organically and through acquisitions), expanding margins and increasing cash flow to achieve earnings per share growth and improve return on invested capital. Worldwide and domestic economies have experienced adverse conditions and may be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. The economic and consumer conditions in the Companys key markets and on a global basis are currently very challenging and are contributing to an increasing intensity of the competitive environment in the marketplace. In addition, the global credit and capital markets continue to experience significant volatility and remain tight. This global economic situation has or could adversely affect the Companys major suppliers, distributors and retailers. The inability of suppliers, distributors or retailers to conduct business or to access liquidity could adversely impact the Companys business and financial performance. In order to mitigate the impact of these challenging conditions, the Company is focusing on improving operating efficiencies, containing costs and optimizing cash flow and return on invested capital. The Company has also maintained adequate liquidity to meet current obligations and fund capital expenditures. However, depending upon their severity and duration, adverse conditions in the worldwide and domestic economies could have a material adverse impact on the Companys business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Marketing, sales and distribution of the Companys products are managed on a geographic basis in order to fully leverage leading market positions within each core market. Market dynamics and consumer trends vary significantly across the Companys five core markets (U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia and New Zealand) within the Companys three geographic regions (North America, Europe and Australia/New Zealand). Within North America, the Company offers a range of beverage alcohol products across the branded wine and spirits and, through Crown Imports, imported beer categories in the U.S. Within the Companys remaining geographies, the Company offers primarily branded wine. The environment for the Companys products is competitive in each of the Companys core markets, due, in part, to industry and retail consolidation. In particular, the U.K. and Australian markets are highly competitive, as further described below. The U.K. wine market is primarily an import market with Australian wines comprising approximately one quarter of all wine sales in the U.K. off premise business. The Australian wine market is primarily a domestic market. The Company has leading share positions in the Australian wine category in both the U.K. and Australian markets. 29 Table of Contents Due to competitive conditions in the U.K. and Australia, it has been difficult for the Company in recent fiscal periods to recover certain cost increases, in particular, the duty increases in the U.K. which have been imposed annually for the past several years. In the U.K., significant consolidation at the retail level has resulted in a limited number of large retailers controlling a significant portion of the off premise wine business. The continuing surplus of Australian wine has made and continues to make very low cost bulk wine available to these U.K. retailers which has allowed certain of these large retailers to create and build private label brands in the Australian wine category. In January 2008, the Company implemented a price increase in the U.K. to cover certain cost increases. In March 2008, the U.K. announced a significant increase in duty as well as the expectation for future annual increases to approximate two percentage points above the rate of inflation. The Company immediately implemented an additional price increase in an effort to offset the impact of this March 2008 duty increase. In November 2008, the U.K. announced an additional increase in duty to be effective December 1, 2008. In an effort to offset the impact of this December 2008 duty increase, the Company immediately implemented an additional price increase in the U.K. In addition, the Company also implemented a price increase in Australia during the first quarter of calendar 2008 in an effort to improve profitability. These price increases, combined with the concentrated retail environment, competition from private label causing deterioration of retail pricing, foreign exchange volatility, and the escalating consumer recession, have all contributed to a greater than expected negative effect on the Companys results of operations for its U.K. and Australian businesses for Fiscal 2009 (as defined below). The calendar years 2004, 2005 and 2006 were years of record Australian grape harvests that contributed to a surplus of Australian bulk wine. The calendar 2007 Australian grape harvest was significantly lower than the calendar 2006 Australian grape harvest as a result of an ongoing drought and late spring frosts in several regions. As a result of various conditions surrounding the calendar 2008 Australian grape harvest, the Company previously expected the supply of wine to continue to move toward balance with demand. However, the calendar 2008 Australian grape harvest was higher than expected, and, although the calendar 2009 Australian grape harvest is expected to be lower than the calendar 2008 Australian grape harvest, the current Australian bulk wine surplus, and related intense competitive conditions in the U.K. and Australian markets, are not expected to subside in the near term. In the U.S., although the calendar 2008 grape harvest was slightly lower than the calendar 2007 grape harvest, the Company expects the overall supply of wine to remain generally in balance with demand. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis. As a result of this analysis, the Company concluded that the carrying amount of goodwill assigned to the Constellation Wines segments U.K. reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value and recorded an impairment loss of $252.7 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impairment loss was determined by comparing the carrying value of goodwill assigned to the specific reporting unit within the segment as of January 1, 2009, with the implied fair value of the goodwill. In determining the implied fair value of the goodwill, the Company considered estimates of future operating results and cash flows of the reporting unit discounted using market based discount rates. The estimates of future operating results and cash flows were principally derived from the Companys updated long term financial forecast, which was developed as part of the Companys strategic planning cycle conducted during the Companys fourth quarter. The decline in the implied fair value of the goodwill and the resulting impairment loss was driven primarily by the accelerated deterioration in the Companys U.K. business during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and the resulting adjustment to the Companys long term financial forecasts, which showed lower estimated future operating results reflecting the significant fourth quarter deterioration in market conditions in the U.K. 30 Table of Contents In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company performed its review of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company determined that certain trademarks associated primarily with the Constellation Wines segments U.K. reporting unit were impaired largely due to the aforementioned market declines in the U.K. during the fourth quarter, and the resulting lower revenue and profit forecasts associated with products incorporating these assets which reflected the significant fourth quarter deterioration in market conditions in the U.K. The Company measured the amount of impairment by calculating the amount by which the carrying value of these assets exceeded their estimated fair values, which were based on projected discounted future cash flows. As a result of this review, the Company recorded impairment losses of $25.9 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company had previously recorded impairment losses of $21.8 million during its second quarter of fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys Australian Initiative (as defined below) and the resulting lower revenue and profit forecasts associated with certain brands incorporating assets impacted by the Australian Initiative. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company performed its review of equity method investments for other than temporary impairment. The Company determined that two of the Companys Constellation Wines segments international equity method investments, Matthew Clark and Ruffino S.r.l., were impaired primarily due to the decline in revenue and profit forecasts for these two equity method investees reflecting the significant market deterioration during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The Company measured the amount of impairment by calculating the amount by which the carrying value of these assets exceeded their estimated fair values, which were based on projected discounted future cash flows. As a result of this review, the Company recorded impairment losses of $79.2 million in equity in earnings of equity method investees on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the year ended February 28, 2009 (Fiscal 2009), the Companys net sales decreased 3% over the year ended February 29, 2008 (Fiscal 2008), primarily due to the divestitures of the Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and the Pacific Northwest wine brands (see Divestitures in Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 below); an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact; and accounting for the Matthew Clark investment under the equity method of accounting (see Equity Method Investments in Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 below); partially offset by net sales of branded wine acquired in the BWE Acquisition (as defined below) and the Companys Constellation Wines segments Fiscal 2008 initiative to reduce distributor wine inventory levels in the U.S., which negatively impacted net sales in the first half of fiscal 2008 as discussed below. Operating income (loss) increased over the comparable prior year period primarily due to lower impairment losses for Fiscal 2009 combined with the incremental benefit from (i) the BWE Acquisition and (ii) the increased net sales discussed above in connection with the Fiscal 2008 distributor wine inventory reduction initiative without a corresponding increase in promotional, advertising, and selling, general and administrative spend within the Constellation Wines segment. These factors were partially offset by costs recognized in Fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys plan to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with the Australian business, primarily by consolidating certain winemaking and packaging operations and reducing the Companys overall grape supply due to reduced capacity needs resulting from a streamlining of the Companys product portfolio (the Australian Initiative). The Companys net loss decreased over the comparable prior year periods net loss primarily due to the factors discussed above, partially offset by a decrease in equity in earnings of equity method investees associated primarily with the Fiscal 2009 impairment losses recorded on certain of the Companys international equity method investments (as discussed above). 31 Table of Contents The Companys Constellation Wines segment implemented a program to reduce distributor wine inventory levels in the U.S. during the first half of fiscal 2008, in response to the consolidation of distributors over the past few years and supply chain technology improvements. As distributors are looking to operate with lower levels of inventory while maintaining appropriate service levels to retailers, the Company has worked closely with its distributors to improve supply chain efficiencies. The Company substantially completed its reduction of distributor wine inventory levels during the second quarter of fiscal 2008. This initiative had a significant impact on the Companys Fiscal 2008 financial performance, including a reduction of net sales of approximately $110 million and a reduction in diluted earnings per share of approximately $0.15 per share. The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting (i) consolidated results of operations of the Company for Fiscal 2009 compared to Fiscal 2008, and Fiscal 2008 compared to the year ended February 28, 2007 (Fiscal 2007), and (ii) financial liquidity and capital resources for Fiscal 2009. This discussion and analysis also identifies certain acquisition related integration costs, restructuring charges and net unusual costs expected to affect consolidated results of operations of the Company for Fiscal 2010. References to base branded wine net sales, base branded wine gross profit and base branded wine business exclude the impact of (i) branded wine acquired in the BWE Acquisition and (ii) branded wine disposed of in the Almaden and Inglenook divestiture and the Pacific Northwest Business divestiture. References to base branded spirits net sales and base branded spirits gross profit exclude the impact of branded spirits acquired in the Svedka Acquisition. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included herein. Recent Developments Divestiture of Value Spirits Business In March 2009, the Company sold its value spirits business for $330.5 million, net of direct costs to sell, subject to post closing adjustments. The Company received $274.5 million in cash proceeds and a note receivable for $60.0 million. The Company retained certain mid premium spirits brands, including Svedka Vodka, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy. This transaction is consistent with the Companys strategic focus on premium, higher growth and higher margin brands in its portfolio. In connection with the classification of this business as an asset group held for sale as of February 28, 2009, the Companys Constellation Spirits segment recorded a loss of $15.6 million for Fiscal 2009, primarily related to asset impairments. This loss is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 32 Table of Contents Fiscal 2010 Global Initiative On April 7, 2009, the Company announced its plan to simplify its business, increase efficiencies and reduce its cost structure on a global basis (the Global Initiative). The Global Initiative includes the elimination of approximately five percent of the Companys global workforce and the closure of certain office, production and warehouse facilities. In addition, the Global Initiative includes the termination of certain contracts, and a streamlining of the Companys production footprint and sales and administrative organizations. Lastly, the Global Initiative includes other non material restructuring activities primarily in connection with the consolidation of the Companys remaining spirits business into its North American wine business following the recent disposition of its value spirits business. This initiative is part of the Companys ongoing efforts to maximize asset utilization, reduce costs and improve long term return on invested capital throughout the Companys operations. The Company expects all costs associated with the Global Initiative to be recognized in its Consolidated Statements of Operations by February 28, 2011. Acquisitions in Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 Acquisition of BWE On December 17, 2007, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Beam Wine Estates, Inc. (BWE), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Fortune Brands, Inc., together with BWEs subsidiaries: Atlas Peak Vineyards, Inc., Buena Vista Winery, Inc., Clos du Bois, Inc., Gary Farrell Wines, Inc. and Peak Wines International, Inc. (the BWE Acquisition). As a result of the BWE Acquisition, the Company acquired the U.S. wine portfolio of Fortune Brands, Inc., including certain wineries, vineyards or interests therein in the State of California, as well as various super premium and fine California wine brands including Clos du Bois and Wild Horse. In June 2008, the Company sold certain assets acquired in the BWE Acquisition (see Divestitures in Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 below). The BWE Acquisition supports the Companys strategy of strengthening its portfolio with fast growing super premium and above wines. The BWE Acquisition strengthens the Companys position as the largest wine company in the world and the largest premium wine company in the U.S. Total consideration paid in cash was $877.3 million. In addition, the Company incurred direct acquisition costs of $1.4 million. The purchase price was financed with the net proceeds from the Companys December 2007 Senior Notes and revolver borrowings under the Companys 2006 Credit Agreement (each as defined below). The results of operations of the BWE business are reported in the Constellation Wines segment and are included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company from the date of acquisition. Acquisition of Svedka On March 19, 2007, the Company acquired the SVEDKA Vodka brand (Svedka) in connection with the acquisition of Spirits Marque One LLC and related business (the Svedka Acquisition). Svedka is a premium Swedish vodka and has become the fastest growing major premium spirits brand in the world. At the time of the acquisition, Svedka was the fifth largest imported vodka in the U.S. and, since the date of the acquisition, Svedka has become the third largest imported vodka in the U.S. In addition, at the time of the acquisition, the Svedka Acquisition supported the Companys strategy of expanding the Companys premium spirits business. The acquisition provided a foundation from which the Company looked to leverage its existing and future premium spirits portfolio for growth. In addition, Svedka complemented the Companys then existing portfolio of super premium and value vodka brands by adding a premium vodka brand that had and continues to experience rapid growth. 33 Table of Contents Total consideration paid in cash for the Svedka Acquisition was $385.8 million. In addition, the Company incurred direct acquisition costs of $1.3 million. The purchase price was financed with revolver borrowings under the Companys June 2006 Credit Agreement (as defined below) as amended in February 2007. The results of operations of the Svedka business are reported in the Constellation Spirits segment and are included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company from the date of acquisition. Acquisition of Vincor On June 5, 2006, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Vincor International Inc. (Vincor), Canadas premier wine company (the Vincor Acquisition). Vincor is Canadas largest producer and marketer of wine. At the time of the acquisition, Vincor was the worlds eighth largest producer and distributor of wine and related products by revenue and was also one of the largest wine importers, marketers and distributors in the U.K. Through this transaction, the Company acquired various additional winery and vineyard interests used in the production of premium, super premium and fine wines from Canada, California, Washington State, Western Australia and New Zealand. In addition, as a result of the acquisition, the Company sources, markets and sells premium wines from South Africa. Well known premium brands acquired in the Vincor Acquisition include Inniskillin, Jackson Triggs, Sawmill Creek, Sumac Ridge, R.H. Phillips, Toasted Head, Hogue, Kim Crawford and Kumala. The Vincor Acquisition supports the Companys strategy of strengthening the breadth of its portfolio across price segments and geographic regions to capitalize on the overall growth in the wine industry. In addition to complementing the Companys current operations in the U.S., U.K., Australia and New Zealand, the Vincor Acquisition increases the Companys global presence by adding Canada as another core market and provides the Company with the ability to capitalize on broader geographic distribution in strategic international markets. In addition, the Vincor Acquisition makes the Company the largest wine company in Canada and strengthens the Companys position as the largest wine company in the world and the largest premium wine company in the U.S. Total consideration paid in cash to the Vincor shareholders was $1,115.8 million. In addition, the Company incurred direct acquisition costs of $9.4 million. At closing, the Company also assumed outstanding indebtedness of Vincor, net of cash acquired, of $320.2 million, resulting in a total transaction value of $1,445.4 million. The purchase price was financed with borrowings under the Companys June 2006 Credit Agreement. The results of operations of the Vincor business are reported in the Constellation Wines segment and are included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company from the date of acquisition. Equity Method Investments in Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 Investment in Matthew Clark On April 17, 2007, the Company and Punch Taverns plc (Punch) commenced operations of a joint venture for the U.K. wholesale business (Matthew Clark). The U.K. wholesale business was formerly owned entirely by the Company. Under the terms of the arrangement, the Company and Punch, directly or indirectly, each have a 50% voting and economic interest in Matthew Clark. The joint venture reinforces Matthew Clarks position as the U.K.s largest independent premier drinks wholesaler serving the on trade drinks industry. The Company received $185.6 million of cash proceeds from the formation of the joint venture. 34 Table of Contents Upon formation of the joint venture, the Company discontinued consolidation of the U.K. wholesale business and accounts for the investment in Matthew Clark under the equity method. Accordingly, the results of operations of Matthew Clark are included in equity in earnings of equity method investees on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations from the date of investment. As discussed previously, the Company recorded an impairment of its investment in Matthew Clark during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. This impairment loss of $30.1 million is included in equity in earnings of equity method investees on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Investment in Crown Imports On July 17, 2006, Barton Beers, Ltd. (Barton, now known as Constellation Beers Ltd. Constellation Beers), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into an Agreement to Establish Joint Venture (the Joint Venture Agreement) with Diblo, S.A. de C.V. (Diblo), an entity owned 76.75% by Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (Modelo) and 23.25% by Anheuser Busch Companies, Inc., pursuant to which Modelos Mexican beer portfolio (the Modelo Brands) will be exclusively imported, marketed and sold in the 50 states of the U.S., the District of Columbia and Guam. In addition, the owners of the Tsingtao and St. Pauli Girl brands transferred exclusive importing, marketing and selling rights with respect to these brands in the U.S. to the joint venture. On January 2, 2007, the parties completed the closing (the Closing) of the transactions contemplated in the Joint Venture Agreement, as amended at Closing. Pursuant to the Joint Venture Agreement, Barton established Crown Imports LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary formed as a Delaware limited liability company. On January 2, 2007, pursuant to a Barton Contribution Agreement, dated July 17, 2006, among Barton, Diblo and Crown Imports LLC, Barton transferred to Crown Imports LLC substantially all of its assets relating to importing, marketing and selling beer under the Corona Extra, Corona Light, Coronita, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, Pacifico, St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao brands and the liabilities associated therewith (the Barton Contributed Net Assets). At the Closing, GModelo Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Diblo Subsidiary), a subsidiary of Diblo joined Barton as a member of Crown Imports LLC, and, in exchange for a 50% membership interest in Crown Imports LLC, contributed cash in an amount equal to the Barton Contributed Net Assets, subject to specified adjustments. This imported beers joint venture is referred to hereinafter as Crown Imports. Also on January 2, 2007, Crown Imports and Extrade II S.A. de C.V. (Extrade II), an affiliate of Modelo, entered into an importer agreement, pursuant to which Extrade II granted to Crown Imports the exclusive right to import, market and sell the Modelo Brands in the territories mentioned above, and Crown Imports and Marcas Modelo, S.A. de C.V. (Marcas Modelo), entered into a Sub license Agreement, pursuant to which Marcas Modelo granted Crown Imports an exclusive sub license to use certain trademarks related to the Modelo Brands within this territory. As a result of these transactions, Constellation Beers and Diblo each have, directly or indirectly, equal interests in Crown Imports and each of Constellation Beers and Diblo have appointed an equal number of directors to the Board of Directors of Crown Imports. The importer agreement that previously gave Barton the exclusive right to import, market and sell the Modelo Brands primarily west of the Mississippi River was superseded by the transactions contemplated by the Joint Venture Agreement, as amended. The contribution by Diblo Subsidiary in exchange for a 50% membership interest in Crown does not constitute the acquisition of a business by the Company. 35 Table of Contents The joint venture and the related importation arrangements provide that, subject to the terms and conditions of those agreements, the joint venture and the related importation arrangements will continue for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10 year periods unless Diblo Subsidiary gives notice prior to the end of year seven of any term. Upon consummation of the transactions, the Company discontinued consolidation of the imported beer business and accounts for the investment in Crown Imports under the equity method. Accordingly, the results of operations of Crown Imports are included in the equity in earnings of equity method investees line on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations from the date of investment. Divestitures in Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 Pacific Northwest Business In June 2008, the Company sold certain businesses consisting of several California wineries and wine brands acquired in the BWE Acquisition, as well as certain wineries and wine brands from the states of Washington and Idaho (collectively, the Pacific Northwest Business) for cash proceeds of $204.2 million, net of direct costs to sell. In addition, if certain objectives are achieved by the buyer, the Company could receive up to an additional $25.0 million in cash payments. This transaction contributes to the Companys streamlining of its U.S. wine portfolio by eliminating brand duplication and excess production capacity. In connection with this divestiture, the Companys Constellation Wines segment recorded a loss of $23.2 million for Fiscal 2009, which includes a loss on business sold of $15.8 million and losses on contractual obligations of $7.4 million. The loss of $23.2 million is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Almaden and Inglenook In February 2008, as part of ongoing efforts to increase focus on premium wine offerings in the U.S., the Company sold its lower margin value priced wine brands, Almaden and Inglenook, and certain other assets for cash proceeds of $133.5 million, net of direct costs to sell. The Company recorded a loss of $27.8 million on this sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, which is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 36 Table of Contents Results of Operations Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Net Sales % Increase 2009 2008 (Decrease) Constellation Wines: Branded wine $ 3,015.3 $ 3,016.9 Wholesale and other 220.6 341.9 (35 )% Constellation Wines net sales 3,235.9 3,358.8 (4 )% Constellation Spirits net sales 418.7 414.2 1 % Crown Imports net sales 2,393.2 2,391.0 1 % Consolidations and eliminations (2,393.2 ) (2,391.0 ) 1 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,654.6 $ 3,773.0 (3 )% Net sales for Fiscal 2009 decreased to $3,654.6 million from $3,773.0 million for Fiscal 2008, a decrease of $118.4 million, or (3%). This decrease was driven primarily by a reduction in wholesale and other net sales resulting largely from the accounting for the Matthew Clark investment under the equity method of accounting. A decrease in branded wine net sales due to the divestitures of the Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and the Pacific Northwest wine brands of $128.4 million and an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $108.8 million was partially offset by net sales of branded wine acquired in the BWE Acquisition of $147.3 million and the Companys Fiscal 2008 initiative to reduce distributor wine inventory levels in the U.S., which negatively impacted net sales in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2008 as discussed above. Constellation Wines Net sales for Constellation Wines decreased to $3,235.9 million for Fiscal 2009 from $3,358.8 million in Fiscal 2008, a decrease of $122.9 million, or (4%). Branded wine net sales decreased $1.6 million primarily due to the decrease in net sales associated with the divestitures of the Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and the Pacific Northwest wine brands of $128.4 million and an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $108.8 million being substantially offset by the net sales of branded wine acquired in the BWE Acquisition of $147.3 million and the benefit from the distributor wine inventory reduction initiative discussed above. Wholesale and other net sales decreased $121.3 million primarily due to the accounting for the Matthew Clark investment under the equity method of accounting. Constellation Spirits Net sales for Constellation Spirits increased to $418.7 million for Fiscal 2009 from $414.2 million for Fiscal 2008, an increase of $4.5 million, or 1%. This slight increase resulted primarily from net sales growth within the Companys branded spirits portfolio which was driven primarily by Svedka, partially offset by a decrease in contract production services net sales of $21.3 million resulting predominantly from the Companys August 2008 sale of a nonstrategic Canadian distilling facility. 37 Table of Contents Crown Imports As this segment is eliminated in consolidation, see Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investments below for a discussion of Crown Imports net sales, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, and operating income. Gross Profit The Companys gross profit decreased to $1,230.0 million for Fiscal 2009 from $1,281.5 million for Fiscal 2008, a decrease of $51.5 million, or (4%). This decrease was driven primarily by an increase in unusual costs, which consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, which were higher by $93.7 million in Fiscal 2009 versus Fiscal 2008. This increase resulted predominantly from (i) an increase in inventory write downs of $83.7 million in Fiscal 2009 in connection primarily with the Companys Australian Initiative of $53.9 million and a loss of $37.0 million on the adjustment of certain inventory, primarily Australian, related to prior years; and (ii) increased flow through of inventory step up of $10.8 million associated primarily with the BWE Acquisition. The Constellation Wines segments gross profit increased $36.3 million primarily due to higher U.S. base branded wine gross profit resulting largely from increased gross profit of $69.5 million due to the BWE Acquisition and the benefit from the Companys Fiscal 2008 distributor wine inventory reduction initiative, partially offset by reduced gross profit in the U.K. largely attributed to the increasing duty and an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $28.7 million. The Constellation Spirits segments gross profit increased $5.9 million primarily due to increased gross profit from the increase in branded spirits net sales. Gross profit as a percent of net sales decreased to 33.7% for Fiscal 2009 from 34.0% for Fiscal 2008 primarily due to the higher unusual costs, partially offset by (i) the benefit of reporting the lower margin U.K. wholesale business under the equity method of accounting for Fiscal 2009, (ii) the benefit from the divestiture of the lower margin Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and the Pacific Northwest wine brands, and (iii) sales of higher margin wine brands acquired in the BWE Acquisition. 38 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $830.4 million for Fiscal 2009 from $807.3 million for Fiscal 2008, an increase of $23.1 million, or 2.9%. This increase is due to an increase in unusual items which consist of certain items that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment of $34.0 million and increases of $8.3 million and $7.9 million in the Constellation Spirits segment and the Corporate Operations and Other segment, respectively, partially offset by a decrease of $27.1 million in the Constellation Wines segment. The increase in unusual items was primarily due to the recognition in Fiscal 2009 of losses of $23.2 million and $15.6 million (discussed previously) in connection with the June 2008 sale of the Pacific Northwest Business and the loss, primarily on assets held for sale, in connection with the March 2009 sale of the value spirits business, respectively, and an increase of $14.3 million in connection with the Companys plan (announced in August 2006) to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the U.K. and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan), partially offset by the loss on the sale of the Companys Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and certain other assets of $27.8 million recognized in Fiscal 2008. The increase in the Constellation Spirits segments selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to increases in general and administrative expenses of $4.6 million, primarily due to losses on foreign currency transactions, and selling expenses of $2.3 million, supporting the growth in net sales. The increase in the Corporate Operations and Other segments selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to higher consulting service fees associated with the Companys review of its businesses and process improvement opportunities and an increase of $6.7 million of stock based compensation expense, partially offset by lower annual management incentive compensation expense. The decrease in the Constellation Wines segments selling, general and administrative expenses is largely due to (i) a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact; and (ii) lower general and administrative expenses resulting primarily from increased cost reduction efforts offset by higher losses on foreign currency transactions. These decreases were partially offset by higher selling expenses within the Constellation Wines segment. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales increased to 22.7% for Fiscal 2009 as compared to 21.4% for Fiscal 2008 primarily due to the higher unusual items, combined with increased losses on foreign currency transactions within the Constellation Wines and Constellation Spirits segments and higher stock based compensation expense, partially offset by the incremental benefit from the BWE Acquisition and the lower annual management incentive compensation expense. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets During Fiscal 2009, the Company recorded impairment losses of $300.4 million, consisting of impairments of goodwill and intangible assets of $252.8 million and $47.6 million, respectively, related primarily to its Constellation Wines segments U.K. reporting unit as more fully discussed in the Overview above. During Fiscal 2008, the Company recorded impairment losses of $812.2 million, consisting of impairments of goodwill and intangible assets of $599.9 million and $212.3 million, respectively, related primarily to its Constellation Wines segments Australian and U.K. reporting units. 39 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges The Company recorded $68.0 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2009 associated primarily with the Australian Initiative. Restructuring charges included $16.5 million of employee termination costs, $3.2 million of contract termination costs, $1.8 million of facility consolidation/relocation costs, and $46.5 million of impairment charges on assets held for sale in Australia. The Company recorded $6.9 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2008 associated primarily with the Companys Fiscal 2008 Plan and the Companys Fiscal 2006 Plan (both as defined below) of $12.0 million, partially offset by the reversal of prior accruals related primarily to the Companys plan to restructure and integrate the operations of Vincor (the Vincor Plan) of $5.1 million. The Fiscal 2008 Plan consists of (i) the Companys plans (announced in November 2007) to streamline certain of its international operations, including the consolidation of certain winemaking and packaging operations in Australia, the buy out of certain grape processing and wine storage contracts in Australia, equipment relocation costs in Australia, and certain employee termination costs; (ii) certain other restructuring charges incurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2008 in connection with the consolidation of certain spirits production processes in the U.S.; and (iii) the Companys plans (announced in January 2008) to streamline certain of its operations in the U.S., primarily in connection with the restructuring and integration of the operations acquired in the BWE Acquisition (the U.S. Initiative). These initiatives are collectively referred to as the Fiscal 2008 Plan. The Fiscal 2006 Plan consists of the Companys worldwide wine reorganizations and the Companys program to consolidate certain west coast production processes in the U.S., both announced during Fiscal 2006. In addition, the Company incurred additional costs for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 in connection with the Companys restructuring and acquisition related integration plans. Total costs incurred in connection with these plans for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008 are as follows: Fiscal (in millions) 2009 2008 Cost of Product Sold Inventory write downs $ 56.8 $ 10.1 Accelerated depreciation $ 11.2 $ 12.0 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Other costs $ 24.2 $ 2.2 Impairment of Intangible Assets $ 22.2 $ 7.4 Restructuring Charges $ 68.0 $ 6.9 Acquisition Related Integration Costs (see below) $ 8.2 $ 11.8 40 Table of Contents The Company expects to incur the following costs in connection with its restructuring and acquisition related integration plans for Fiscal 2010, including the Fiscal 2010 Global Initiative discussed previously: Expected Fiscal (in millions) 2010 Cost of Product Sold Accelerated depreciation $ 27.2 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Other costs $ 45.5 Restructuring Charges $ 50.6 Acquisition Related Integration Costs $ 4.4 Acquisition Related Integration Costs Acquisition related integration costs decreased to $8.2 million for Fiscal 2009 from $11.8 million for Fiscal 2008. Acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2009 consisted of costs recorded primarily in connection with the Companys Fiscal 2008 Plan. The Fiscal 2009 costs included $2.5 million of employee related costs and $5.7 million of facilities and other one time costs. Acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2008 consisted of costs recorded primarily in connection with the Vincor Plan. Operating Income (Loss) The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Operating Income (Loss) % Increase 2009 2008 (Decrease) Constellation Wines $ 621.8 $ 558.4 11 % Constellation Spirits 69.6 72.0 (3 )% Corporate Operations and Other (93.4 ) (85.5 ) 9 % Crown Imports 504.1 509.0 (1 )% Consolidations and eliminations (504.1 ) (509.0 ) 1 % Total Reportable Segments 598.0 544.9 10 % Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring Charges and Unusual Costs (575.0 ) (901.6 ) NM Consolidated Operating Income (Loss) $ 23.0 $ (356.7 ) NM NM Not Meaningful 41 Table of Contents As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased to $23.0 million for Fiscal 2009 from a consolidated operating loss of $356.7 million for Fiscal 2008, an increase of $379.7 million. Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual costs of $575.0 million and $901.6 million for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008, respectively, consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs include: Fiscal (in millions) 2009 2008 Cost of Product Sold Flow through of inventory step up $ 22.2 $ 11.4 Inventory write downs 56.8 10.1 Accelerated depreciation 11.2 12.0 Other 37.1 0.1 Cost of Product Sold 127.3 33.6 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Loss on sale of Pacific Northwest Business 23.2 Loss, primarily on assets held for sale, in connection with the March 2009 sale of the value spirits business 15.6 Loss (gain) on sale of non strategic assets 8.1 (4.8 ) Loss on sale of Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and certain other assets 27.8 Loss on the contribution of the U.K. wholesale business 6.6 Other costs 24.2 7.5 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 71.1 37.1 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets 300.4 812.2 Restructuring Charges 68.0 6.9 Acquisition Related Integration Costs 8.2 11.8 Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring Charges and Unusual Costs $ 575.0 $ 901.6 Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees The Companys equity in earnings of equity method investees decreased to $186.6 million in Fiscal 2009 from $257.9 million in Fiscal 2008, a decrease of $71.3 million, or (28%). This decrease is primarily due to $83.3 million of impairment losses recognized in Fiscal 2009 on certain of the Companys international equity method investments, primarily in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 (as more fully discussed in the Overview above) versus a $15.1 million impairment loss recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Net sales for Crown Imports increased slightly to $2,393.2 million for Fiscal 2009 from $2,391.0 million for Fiscal 2008, an increase of $2.2 million, or 1%. Crown Imports gross profit decreased $17.9 million, as the slight increase in net sales was more than offset by a contractual price increase in Mexican beer costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $13.0 million, primarily due to a decrease in advertising spend resulting from timing of marketing activities. Operating income decreased $4.8 million, or (1%), primarily due to these factors. 42 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $3.8 million and $5.7 million, for Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008, respectively, decreased to $316.4 million for Fiscal 2009 from $341.8 million for Fiscal 2008, a decrease of $25.4 million, or (7%). This was primarily due to lower average interest rates for Fiscal 2009. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2009 of (182.2%) was driven largely by (i) a non deductible portion of the impairment losses related to goodwill, equity method investments and trademarks of $268.8 million, $83.3 million and $23.6 million, respectively; (ii) the recognition of a valuation allowance of $67.4 million against net operating losses primarily in Australia resulting largely from the Australian Initiative; and (iii) the recognition of income tax expense in connection with the gain on settlement of certain foreign currency economic hedges. The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2008 of (39.2%) was impacted primarily by a non deductible portion of the impairment losses related to goodwill and certain other intangible assets of $599.9 million and $177.0 million, respectively. In addition, the Company recorded a valuation allowance against net operating loss carryforwards in Australia of $51.7 million for Fiscal 2008. Net (Loss) Income As a result of the above factors, net loss decreased to a net loss of $301.4 million for Fiscal 2009 from a net loss of $613.3 million for Fiscal 2008, or $311.9 million. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Net Sales % Increase 2008 2007 (Decrease) Constellation Wines: Branded wine $ 3,016.9 $ 2,755.7 9 % Wholesale and other 341.9 1,087.7 (69 )% Constellation Wines net sales 3,358.8 3,843.4 (13 )% Constellation Spirits net sales 414.2 329.4 26 % Constellation Beers net sales 1,043.6 (100 )% Crown Imports net sales 2,391.0 368.8 NM Consolidations and eliminations (2,391.0 ) (368.8 ) NM Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,773.0 $ 5,216.4 (28 )% 43 Table of Contents Net sales for Fiscal 2008 decreased to $3,773.0 million from $5,216.4 million for Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $1,443.4 million, or (28%). This decrease resulted primarily from a decrease in net sales of $1,043.6 million and $759.8 million for the Crown Imports and Matthew Clark investments, respectively, which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, partially offset by net sales of products acquired in the Vincor Acquisition, Svedka Acquisition and BWE Acquisition of $202.7 million and a favorable foreign currency impact of $133.5 million. Constellation Wines Net sales for Constellation Wines decreased to $3,358.8 million for Fiscal 2008 from $3,843.4 million in Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $484.6 million, or (13%). Branded wine net sales increased $261.2 million primarily due to $140.2 million of net sales of branded wine acquired in the Vincor Acquisition and BWE Acquisition, a favorable foreign currency impact of $108.2 million and a benefit of $55.7 million due to branded wine net sales for the U.K. previously sold through the Companys U.K. wholesale business, partially offset by lower U.S. base branded wine net sales resulting primarily from the Companys implementation of a program to reduce distributor wine inventory levels in the U.S. Wholesale and other net sales decreased $745.8 million primarily due to accounting for the Matthew Clark investment under the equity method of accounting, partially offset by a favorable foreign currency impact of $25.3 million. Constellation Spirits Net sales for Constellation Spirits increased to $414.2 million for Fiscal 2008 from $329.4 million for Fiscal 2007, an increase of $84.8 million, or 26%. This increase resulted primarily from $55.1 million of net sales of branded spirits acquired in the Svedka Acquisition and an increase in base branded spirits net sales of $19.9 million due primarily to higher average selling prices. Constellation Beers Net sales for Constellation Beers decreased $1,043.6 million, or (100%), from Fiscal 2007 as the Crown Imports investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Gross Profit The Companys gross profit decreased to $1,281.5 million for Fiscal 2008 from $1,523.9 million for Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $242.4 million, or (16%). The Constellation Wines segments gross profit increased $4.9 million primarily due to increased gross profit of $58.5 million due to the Vincor Acquisition and BWE Acquisition and a favorable foreign currency impact of $40.6 million, partially offset by a decrease of $77.8 million resulting from accounting for the Matthew Clark investment under the equity method of accounting and lower U.S. base branded wine gross profit resulting from the lower U.S. base branded wine net sales primarily as a result of the Companys program to reduce distributor inventory levels. The Constellation Spirits segments gross profit increased $36.7 million primarily due to increased gross profit of $26.2 million due to the Svedka Acquisition and increased base branded spirits gross profit of $9.0 million resulting from the higher average selling prices. The Constellation Beers segments gross profit was down $290.9 million due to accounting for the Crown Imports investment under the equity method of accounting. In addition, unusual items, which consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, were lower by $6.9 million in Fiscal 2008 versus Fiscal 2007. This decrease resulted primarily from decreased flow through of inventory step up of $18.8 million associated primarily with the Vincor Acquisition, partially offset by an increase in inventory write offs and accelerated depreciation of $9.5 million and $5.4 million, respectively, primarily associated with the Fiscal 2008 Plan. 44 Table of Contents Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased to 34.0% for Fiscal 2008 from 29.2% for Fiscal 2007 primarily due to the benefit of reporting the lower margin U.K. wholesale and imported beer businesses under the equity method of accounting, partially offset by (i) lower margins in the U.S. base branded wine business primarily due to the distributor inventory reduction program and (ii) lower margins in the U.K. branded wine business primarily due to the Companys absorption of increased duty costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $807.3 million for Fiscal 2008 from $768.8 million for Fiscal 2007, an increase of $38.5 million, or 5%. This increase is due to an increase of $76.4 million in the Constellation Wines segment, an increase of $30.2 million in the Constellation Spirits segment, and an increase of $24.6 million in Corporate Operations and Other, partially offset by a $82.8 million decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses within the Constellation Beers segment as the Crown Imports investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and a reduction in unusual costs which consist of certain items that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment of $9.9 million. The increase in the Constellation Wines segments selling, general and administrative expenses is due to increased general and administrative expenses of $43.2 million, advertising expenses of $20.4 million and selling expenses of $12.8 million resulting primarily from the Vincor Acquisition and BWE Acquisition and the recognition of an additional $6.5 million of stock based compensation expense. The increase in the Constellation Spirits segments selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to increases in advertising expenses of $14.0 million and selling expenses of $11.8 million resulting primarily from the Svedka Acquisition. The Corporate Operations and Other segments selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to increased general and administrative expenses to support the Companys growth and the recognition of additional stock based compensation expense in Fiscal 2008 of $6.8 million. The decrease in unusual costs was primarily due to the recognition in Fiscal 2008 of (i) $35.3 million of other costs associated primarily with the loss on the sale of the Companys Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and certain other assets and (ii) a $6.6 million loss in connection with the contribution of the Companys U.K. wholesale business to the Matthew Clark joint venture, net of a $4.8 million realized gain on a prior asset sale; partially offset by the recognition in Fiscal 2007 of (i) $16.3 million of other costs associated with the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan (as defined below in Restructuring Charges) (primarily from the write down of an Australian winery and certain Australian vineyards to fair value less cost to sell) and the Fiscal 2006 Plan, (ii) a $13.4 million loss on the sale of the Companys branded bottled water business resulting from the write off of $27.7 million of non deductible intangible assets, primarily goodwill, (iii) financing costs of $11.9 million related primarily to the Companys new senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Vincor Acquisition and (iv) foreign currency losses of $5.4 million on foreign denominated intercompany loan balances associated with the Vincor Acquisition. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales increased to 21.4% for Fiscal 2008 as compared to 14.7% for Fiscal 2007 primarily due to (i) the reporting of the imported beer and U.K. wholesale businesses under the equity method of accounting, (ii) the percent increase in general and administrative expenses supporting the Companys growth within the Corporate Operations and Other segment and the Constellation Wines segment growing at a faster rate than the increase in the respective segments net sales (including a combined increase of $13.3 million of stock based compensation expense for those segments) and (iii) the lower net sales associated with the reduction in the distributor wine inventory levels without a corresponding decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses within the U.S. branded wine business. 45 Table of Contents Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company recorded $812.2 million of impairment losses for Fiscal 2008, consisting of impairments of goodwill and intangible assets of $599.9 million and $212.3 million, respectively, related primarily to its Constellation Wines segments Australian and U.K. reporting units. Restructuring Charges The Company recorded $6.9 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2008 associated primarily with the Companys Fiscal 2008 Plan and the Fiscal 2006 Plan of $12.0 million, partially offset by the reversal of prior accruals related primarily to the Vincor Plan of $5.1 million. Restructuring charges included $10.2 million of employee termination benefit costs, ($3.4) million of contract termination costs and $0.1 million of facility consolidation/relocation costs. The Company recorded $32.5 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2007 associated primarily with the Companys Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan and Fiscal 2006 Plan. In addition, the Company incurred additional costs for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 in connection with the Companys restructuring and acquisition related integration plans. Total costs incurred in connection with the Companys restructuring and acquisition related integration plans for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 are as follows: Fiscal (in millions) 2008 2007 Cost of Product Sold Inventory write downs $ 10.1 $ 0.6 Accelerated depreciation $ 12.0 $ 6.6 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Other costs $ 2.2 $ 16.3 Impairment of Intangible Assets $ 7.4 $ Restructuring Charges $ 6.9 $ 32.5 Acquisition Related Integration Costs (see below) $ 11.8 $ 23.6 Acquisition Related Integration Costs Acquisition related integration costs decreased to $11.8 million for Fiscal 2008 from $23.6 million for Fiscal 2007. Acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2008 consisted of costs recorded primarily in connection with the Companys Vincor Plan and the Fiscal 2008 Plan. These costs included $4.8 million of employee related costs and $7.0 million of facilities and other costs. Acquisition related integration costs for Fiscal 2007 consisted of costs recorded primarily in connection with the Vincor Plan. 46 Table of Contents Operating (Loss) Income The following table sets forth the operating (loss) income (in millions of dollars) by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Operating (Loss) Income % Increase 2008 2007 (Decrease) Constellation Wines $ 558.4 $ 629.9 (11 )% Constellation Spirits 72.0 65.5 10 % Constellation Beers 208.1 (100 )% Corporate Operations and Other (85.5 ) (60.9 ) 40 % Crown Imports 509.0 78.4 NM Consolidations and eliminations (509.0 ) (78.4 ) NM Total Reportable Segments 544.9 842.6 (35 )% Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring Charges and Unusual Costs (901.6 ) (143.6 ) 528 % Consolidated Operating (Loss) Income $ (356.7 ) $ 699.0 (151 )% As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating (loss) income decreased to an operating loss of $356.7 million for Fiscal 2008 from operating income of $699.0 million for Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $1,055.7 million, or (151%). Acquisition related integration costs, restructuring charges and unusual costs of $901.6 million and $143.6 million for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, respectively, consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs include: 47 Table of Contents Fiscal (in millions) 2008 2007 Cost of Product Sold Flow through of inventory step up $ 11.4 $ 30.2 Inventory write downs 10.1 0.6 Accelerated depreciation 12.0 6.6 Other 0.1 3.1 Cost of Product Sold 33.6 40.5 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Gain on sale of non strategic asset (4.8 ) Loss on sale of Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and certain other assets 27.8 Loss on the contribution of the U.K. wholesale business 6.6 Loss on sale of the branded bottled water business 13.4 Financing costs 11.9 Foreign currency losses on foreign denominated intercompany loan balances 5.4 Other costs 7.5 16.3 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 37.1 47.0 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets 812.2 Restructuring Charges 6.9 32.5 Acquisition Related Integration Costs 11.8 23.6 Acquisition Related Integration Costs, Restructuring Charges and Unusual Costs $ 901.6 $ 143.6 Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees The Companys equity in earnings of equity method investees increased to $257.9 million in Fiscal 2008 from $49.9 million in Fiscal 2007. This increase is primarily due to the January 2, 2007, consummation of the Crown Imports joint venture and the reporting of the results of operations of that joint venture since that date under the equity method of accounting of $255.1 million. Gain on Change in Fair Value of Derivative Instrument In April 2006, the Company entered into a foreign currency forward contract in connection with the Vincor Acquisition to fix the U.S. dollar cost of the acquisition and the payment of certain outstanding indebtedness. For Fiscal 2007, the Company recorded a gain of $55.1 million in connection with this derivative instrument. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, a transaction that involves a business combination is not eligible for hedge accounting treatment. As such, the gain was recognized separately on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 48 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $5.7 million and $5.4 million, for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, respectively, increased to $341.8 million for Fiscal 2008 from $268.7 million for Fiscal 2007, an increase of $73.1 million, or 27%. The increase resulted primarily from higher average borrowings in Fiscal 2008 as a result of the funding of the Vincor Acquisition, Svedka Acquisition and BWE Acquisition, and the $500.0 million of share repurchases, partially offset by $185.6 million of net proceeds from the formation of the U.K. wholesale joint venture. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate was (39.2%) for Fiscal 2008 as compared to 38.0% for Fiscal 2007. The change in the Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2008 is primarily due to a non deductible portion of the impairment losses related to goodwill and certain other intangible assets of $599.9 million and $177.0 million, respectively. In addition, the Company recorded a valuation allowance against net operating loss carryforwards in Australia of $51.7 million for Fiscal 2008. In Fiscal 2007, the Company sold its branded bottled water business that resulted in the write off of $27.7 million of non deductible intangible assets, primarily goodwill. The provision for income taxes on the sale of the branded bottled water business increased the Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2007. Net (Loss) Income As a result of the above factors, net (loss) income decreased to a net loss of $613.3 million for Fiscal 2008 from net income of $331.9 million for Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $945.2 million. Financial Liquidity and Capital Resources General The Companys principal use of cash in its operating activities is for purchasing and carrying inventories and carrying seasonal accounts receivable. The Companys primary source of liquidity has historically been cash flow from operations, except during annual grape harvests when the Company has relied on short term borrowings. In the U.S. and Canada, the annual grape crush normally begins in August and runs through October. In Australia and New Zealand, the annual grape crush normally begins in February and runs through May. The Company generally begins taking delivery of grapes at the beginning of the crush season with payments for such grapes beginning to come due one month later. The Companys short term borrowings to support such purchases generally reach their highest levels one to two months after the crush season has ended. Historically, the Company has used cash flow from operating activities to repay its short term borrowings and fund capital expenditures. The Company will continue to use its short term borrowings to support its working capital requirements. The global credit crisis has imposed exceptional levels of volatility in the capital markets, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, and increased counterparty risk. Nevertheless, the Company has maintained adequate liquidity to meet current working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures, repay scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, and prepay certain future principal payments on debt. Absent further severe deterioration of market conditions, the Company believes that cash provided by operating activities and its financing activities, primarily short term borrowings, will provide adequate resources to satisfy its working capital, scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, and anticipated capital expenditure requirements for both its short term and long term capital needs. 49 Table of Contents As of April 20, 2009, the Company had $707.5 million in revolving loans available to be drawn under its 2006 Credit Agreement. The member financial institutions participating in the Companys 2006 Credit Agreement have complied with prior funding requests and the Company believes the member financial institutions will comply with ongoing funding requests. However, there can be no assurances that any particular financial institution will continue to do so in the future. Fiscal 2009 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2009 was $506.9 million, which resulted primarily from a net loss of $301.4 million of net income, plus $748.0 million of net non cash items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Operations and $159.3 million of other, net, less $99.0 million representing the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities. The net non cash items consisted primarily of impairment losses of goodwill and intangible assets; depreciation of property, plant and equipment; equity in earnings of equity method investees, net of distributed earnings; and the write down of inventory in Australia. The net change in operating assets and liabilities resulted primarily from an increase in inventories of $86.0 million and a decrease in other accrued expenses and liabilities of $95.0 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $87.4 million. The offsetting increase in inventories and decrease in accounts receivable are both attributable primarily to lower net sales for the Companys fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 compared to the Companys fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. The decrease in other accrued expenses and liabilities is primarily attributable to an increase in cash paid for income taxes. Other, net, consisted primarily of (i) cash proceeds of $94.8 million from the gain on settlement of certain foreign currency hedges which were designed to economically hedge foreign currency risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated intercompany balances; (ii) cash proceeds of $27.5 million for tenant allowances received in connection with the Companys 19.5 year lease of a new warehousing and production facility in the U.K. as part of the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan; (iii) $11.5 million of non cash losses on certain foreign currency denominated intercompany balances, net of non cash gains on certain foreign currency hedges which were designed to economically hedge foreign currency risk associated with these certain foreign currency denominated intercompany balances and (iv) a $9.1 million non cash loss associated with the settlement of pension and postretirement liabilities as a result of the sale of a nonstrategic Canadian distilling facility; and (v) $7.4 million of non cash losses on contractual obligations recorded in connection with the sale of the Pacific Northwest Business. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for Fiscal 2009 was $128.6 million, which resulted primarily from the proceeds from the sale of the Pacific Northwest Business of $204.2 million, net of direct costs to sell, less $128.6 million of capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for Fiscal 2009 was $647.4 million resulting primarily from principal payments of long term debt of $577.6 million and net repayment of notes payable of $109.7 million. 50 Table of Contents Fiscal 2008 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2008 was $519.8 million, which resulted primarily from a net loss of $613.3 million and net payments of $32.1 million associated with the change in operating assets and liabilities (net of effects from purchases and sales of businesses), partially offset by $1,165.2 million of net non cash items charged to the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily driven by a $37.8 million increase in inventories and $29.2 million of other items, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable, net, of $56.2 million. The increase in inventories was due primarily to a delay in the release of the Canadian icewine vintage and an increase in U.S. wine inventory balances as a result of the Companys program to reduce distributor wine inventory levels. The other items consist primarily of $24.7 million of losses on cash settlement of derivative instruments designed to economically hedge foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated intercompany balances. These losses offset non cash gains in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations associated with the foreign currency denominated intercompany balances. The decrease in accounts receivable, net, is due to lower U.S. sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 in connection with the Companys program to reduce distributor wine inventory levels and collection of accounts receivable balances acquired in the BWE Acquisition, partially offset by increased U.K. accounts receivable in connection with sales to Matthew Clark. The net non cash items consisted primarily of impairment losses of goodwill and intangible assets, depreciation of property, plant and equipment and deferred tax provision. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for Fiscal 2008 was $1,112.9 million, which resulted primarily from the use of $1,274.1 million, net of cash acquired, for the Svedka Acquisition and BWE Acquisition, and $143.8 million of capital expenditures, partially offset by $185.6 million of net proceeds from the formation of the U.K. wholesale joint venture and $133.7 million from the sale of the Companys Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and certain other assets. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for Fiscal 2008 was $584.9 million resulting primarily from proceeds from issuance of long term debt of $1,212.9 million and from notes payable of $219.4 million, partially offset by purchases of treasury stock of $500.0 million and principal payments of long term debt of $374.9 million. 51 Table of Contents Share Repurchase Programs During February 2006, the Companys Board of Directors replenished a June 1998 Board of Directors authorization to repurchase up to $100.0 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common Stock. During Fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased 3,894,978 shares of Class A Common Stock at an aggregate cost of $100.0 million, or at an average cost of $25.67 per share. The Company used revolver borrowings under the June 2006 Credit Agreement to pay the purchase price for these shares. During February 2007, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500.0 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common Stock. During Fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased 21,332,468 shares of Class A Common Stock pursuant to this authorization at an aggregate cost of $500.0 million, or an average cost of $23.44 per share, through a combination of open market transactions and an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) transaction that was announced in May 2007. The repurchased shares include 933,206 shares of Class A Common Stock that were received by the Company in July 2007 in connection with the early termination of the calculation period for the ASR transaction by the counterparty to the ASR transaction. The Company used revolver borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreement to pay the purchase price for the repurchased shares. The repurchased shares have become treasury shares. Debt Total debt outstanding as of February 28, 2009, amounted to $4,433.6 million, a decrease of $823.9 million from February 29, 2008. The ratio of total debt to total capitalization increased to 69.9% as of February 28, 2009, from 65.5% as of February 29, 2008. The increase is attributable primarily to the foreign currency impact on the Companys total capitalization. Senior Credit Facility 2006 Credit Agreement In connection with the Vincor Acquisition, on June 5, 2006, the Company and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a lender and administrative agent, and certain other agents, lenders, and financial institutions entered into a new credit agreement (the June 2006 Credit Agreement). On February 23, 2007, and on November 19, 2007, the June 2006 Credit Agreement was amended (collectively, the 2007 Amendments). The June 2006 Credit Agreement together with the 2007 Amendments is referred to as the 2006 Credit Agreement. The 2006 Credit Agreement provides for aggregate credit facilities of $3.9 billion, consisting of a $1.2 billion tranche A term loan facility due in June 2011, a $1.8 billion tranche B term loan facility due in June 2013, and a $900 million revolving credit facility (including a sub facility for letters of credit of up to $200 million) which terminates in June 2011. Proceeds of the June 2006 Credit Agreement were used to pay off the Companys obligations under its prior senior credit facility, to fund the Vincor Acquisition and to repay certain indebtedness of Vincor. The Company uses its revolving credit facility under the 2006 Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes, including working capital, on an as needed basis. 52 Table of Contents As of February 28, 2009, the required principal repayments of the tranche A term loan and the tranche B term loan for each of the five succeeding fiscal years are as follows: Tranche A Tranche B (in millions) Term Loan Term Loan Total 2010 $ $ $ 2011 225.0 4.0 229.0 2012 150.0 4.0 154.0 2013 714.0 714.0 2014 712.0 712.0 $ 375.0 $ 1,434.0 $ 1,809.0 The rate of interest on borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreement is a function of LIBOR plus a margin, the federal funds rate plus a margin, or the prime rate plus a margin. The margin is adjustable based upon the Companys debt ratio (as defined in the 2006 Credit Agreement) with respect to the tranche A term loan facility and the revolving credit facility. The margin is fixed with respect to the tranche B term loan facility. As of February 28, 2009, the LIBOR margin for the tranche A term loan facility and the revolving credit facility is currently at the maximum rate of 1.25%, while the LIBOR margin on the tranche B term loan facility is 1.50%. The February 23, 2007, amendment amended the June 2006 Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) increase the revolving credit facility from $500.0 million to $900.0 million, which increased the aggregate credit facilities from $3.5 billion to $3.9 billion; (ii) increase the aggregate amount of cash payments the Company is permitted to make in respect or on account of its capital stock; (iii) remove certain limitations on the incurrence of senior unsecured indebtedness and the application of proceeds thereof; (iv) increase the maximum permitted total Debt Ratio and decrease the required minimum Interest Coverage Ratio; and (v) eliminate the Senior Debt Ratio covenant and the Fixed Charges Ratio covenant. The November 19, 2007, amendment clarified certain provisions governing the incurrence of senior unsecured indebtedness and the application of proceeds thereof under the June 2006 Credit Agreement, as previously amended. The Companys obligations are guaranteed by certain of its U.S. subsidiaries. These obligations are also secured by a pledge of (i) 100% of the ownership interests in certain of the Companys U.S. subsidiaries and (ii) 65% of the voting capital stock of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to covenants that are contained in the 2006 Credit Agreement, including those restricting the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including guarantees of indebtedness), additional liens, mergers and consolidations, disposition or acquisition of property, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates and the making of certain investments, in each case subject to numerous conditions, exceptions and thresholds. The financial covenants are limited to maximum total debt coverage ratios and minimum interest coverage ratios. As of February 28, 2009, under the 2006 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding tranche A term loans of $375.0 million bearing an interest rate of 2.2%, tranche B term loans of $1,434.0 million bearing an interest rate of 3.3%, revolving loans of $67.2 million bearing an interest rate of 1.7%, outstanding letters of credit of $32.0 million, and $800.8 million in revolving loans available to be drawn. 53 Table of Contents Subsequent to February 28, 2009, the Company used proceeds from the sales of certain assets, including proceeds from the March 2009 sale of its value spirits business, to prepay $260.0 million on the Companys tranche A and tranche B term loans under the 2006 Credit Agreement. As of April 20, 2009, under the 2006 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding tranche A term loans of $321.0 million bearing an interest rate of 2.0%, tranche B term loans of $1,228.0 million bearing an interest rate of 2.7%, revolving loans of $160.0 million bearing an interest rate of 1.7%, outstanding letters of credit of $32.5 million, and $707.5 million in revolving loans available to be drawn. In March 2005, the Company replaced its then outstanding five year interest rate swap agreements with new five year delayed start interest rate swap agreements effective March 1, 2006, which are outstanding as of February 28, 2009. These delayed start interest rate swap agreements extended the original hedged period through Fiscal 2010. The swap agreements fixed LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% over the five year term. The Company received $30.3 million in proceeds from the unwinding of the original swaps. This amount is being reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) ratably into earnings in the same period in which the original hedged item is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008, the Company reclassified $12.6 million and $7.1 million, net of income tax effect, respectively, from AOCI to interest expense, net on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. This non cash operating activity is included in the other, net line in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Senior Notes In February 2001, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8% Senior Notes due February 2008 (the February 2001 Senior Notes). On February 15, 2008, the Company repaid the February 2001 Senior Notes with proceeds from its revolving credit facility under the 2006 Credit Agreement. As of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding 1.0 million ($1.4 million) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series B Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series B Senior Notes). In addition, as of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding 154.0 million ($220.5 million, net of $0.1 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series C Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series C Senior Notes). On August 15, 2006, the Company issued $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due September 2016 at an issuance price of $693.1 million (net of $6.9 million unamortized discount, with an effective interest rate of 7.4%) (the August 2006 Senior Notes). The net proceeds of the offering ($685.6 million) were used to reduce a corresponding amount of borrowings under the Companys June 2006 Credit Agreement. As of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding $694.4 million (net of $5.6 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of August 2006 Senior Notes. On May 14, 2007, the Company issued $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due May 2017 (the Original May 2007 Senior Notes). The net proceeds of the offering ($693.9 million) were used to reduce a corresponding amount of borrowings under the revolving portion of the Companys 2006 Credit Agreement. In January 2008, the Company exchanged $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due May 2017 (the May 2007 Senior Notes) for all of the Original May 2007 Senior Notes. The terms of the May 2007 Senior Notes are substantially identical in all material respects to the Original May 2007 Senior Notes, except that the May 2007 Senior Notes are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of May 2007 Senior Notes. 54 Table of Contents On December 5, 2007, the Company issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 3/8% Senior Notes due December 2014 at an issuance price of $496.7 million (net of $3.3 million unamortized discount, with an effective interest rate of 8.5%) (the December 2007 Senior Notes). The net proceeds of the offering ($492.2 million) were used to fund a portion of the purchase price of BWE. As of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding $497.2 million (net of $2.8 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of December 2007 Senior Notes. The senior notes described above are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the outstanding principal amount and a make whole payment based on the present value of the future payments at the adjusted Treasury Rate or adjusted Gilt rate plus 50 basis points. The senior notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment to all existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness of the Company. Certain of the Companys significant U.S. operating subsidiaries guarantee the senior notes, on a senior unsecured basis. Senior Subordinated Notes As of February 28, 2009, the Company had outstanding $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due January 2012 (the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes). The January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes are currently redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company. Subsidiary Credit Facilities In addition to the above arrangements, the Company has additional credit arrangements totaling $334.6 million as of February 28, 2009. These arrangements primarily support the financing needs of the Companys domestic and foreign subsidiary operations. Interest rates and other terms of these borrowings vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions. As of February 28, 2009, amounts outstanding under these arrangements were $193.9 million. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table sets forth information about the Companys long term contractual obligations outstanding at February 28, 2009. The table brings together data for easy reference from the consolidated balance sheet and from individual notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Notes 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of the items noted in the following table. 55 Table of Contents PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD Less than After (in millions) Total 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years 5 years Contractual obligations Notes payable to banks $ 227.3 $ 227.3 $ $ $ Interest payments on notes payable to banks(1) 6.3 6.3 Long term debt (excluding unamortized discount) 4,214.8 235.3 648.9 1,429.1 1,901.5 Interest payments on long term debt(2) 1,405.8 278.1 425.5 330.5 371.7 Operating leases 568.8 75.1 117.1 78.6 298.0 Other long term liabilities(3) 306.9 148.5 85.6 28.7 44.1 Unconditional purchase obligations(4) 2,198.9 425.5 656.5 379.0 737.9 Total contractual obligations $ 8,928.8 $ 1,396.1 $ 1,933.6 $ 2,245.9 $ 3,353.2 (1) Interest payments on notes payable to banks include interest on both revolving loans under the Companys senior credit facility and on foreign subsidiary credit facilities. The weighted average interest rate on the revolving loans under the Companys senior credit facility was 1.7% as of February 28, 2009. Interest rates on foreign subsidiary credit facilities range from 1.1% to 5.0% as of February 28, 2009. (2) Interest rates on long term debt obligations range from 3.1% to 8.5%. Interest payments on long term debt obligations include amounts associated with the Companys outstanding interest rate swap agreements to fix LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt. Interest payments on long term debt do not include interest related to capital lease obligations or certain foreign credit arrangements, which represent approximately 0.8% of the Companys total long term debt, as amounts are not material. (3) Other long term liabilities include $35.4 million associated with expected payments for unrecognized tax benefit liabilities as of February 28, 2009, including $21.4 million in the less than one year period. The payments are reflected in the period in which the Company believes they will ultimately be settled based on the Companys experience in these matters. Other long term liabilities do not include payments for unrecognized tax benefit liabilities of $101.3 million due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. In addition, other long term liabilities do not include expected payments for interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax benefit liabilities as amounts are not material. See Note 11 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of these items. (4) Total unconditional purchase obligations consist of $16.1 million for contracts to purchase various spirits over the next four fiscal years, $1,941.1 million for contracts to purchase grapes over the next sixteen fiscal years, $49.2 million for contracts to purchase bulk wine over the next four fiscal years, $163.1 million for a contract to purchase a certain raw material over the next three fiscal years and $29.4 million for processing contracts over the next four fiscal years. See Note 14 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of these items. Capital Expenditures During Fiscal 2009, the Company incurred $128.6 million for capital expenditures. The Company plans to spend from $150.0 million to $170.0 million for capital expenditures in Fiscal 2010. Included within the planned expenditures for Fiscal 2010 are amounts associated with the Companys initiative relating to the implementation of a comprehensive, multi year program that will strengthen and enhance the Companys global business capabilities and processes through the creation of an integrated technology platform to improve the accessibility of information and visibility of global data. Management reviews the capital expenditure program periodically and modifies it as required to meet current business needs. 56 Table of Contents Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices The Companys results of operations and financial condition have not been significantly affected by inflation and changing prices. The Company intends to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices and identifying on going cost savings initiatives, subject to normal competitive conditions. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will be able to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices. Critical Accounting Policies The Companys significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. However, certain of the Companys accounting policies are particularly important to the portrayal of the Companys financial position and results of operations and require the application of significant judgment by the Companys management; as a result they are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. In applying those policies, the Companys management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. Those estimates are based on the Companys historical experience, the Companys observance of trends in the industry, information provided by the Companys customers and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. On an ongoing basis, the Company reviews its estimates to ensure that they appropriately reflect changes in the Companys business. The Companys critical accounting policies include: Accounting for promotional activities. Sales reflect reductions attributable to consideration given to customers in various customer incentive programs, including pricing discounts on single transactions, volume discounts, promotional and advertising allowances, coupons, and rebates. Certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the cost of those programs. The accrued liability for these programs is determined through analysis of programs offered, historical trends, expectations regarding customer and consumer participation, sales and payment trends, and experience with payment patterns associated with similar programs that had been previously offered. If assumptions included in the Companys estimates were to change or market conditions were to change, then material incremental reductions to revenue could be required, which would have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. Promotional costs were $712.1 million, $733.7 million and $635.6 million for Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, respectively. Accrued promotion costs were $100.3 million and $143.9 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. Inventory valuation. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being determined on the first in, first out method. The Company assesses the valuation of its inventories and reduces the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of the Companys forecasted usage to their estimated net realizable value. The Company estimates the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements. Reductions to the carrying value of inventories are recorded in cost of product sold. If the future demand for the Companys products is less favorable than the Companys forecasts, then the value of the inventories may be required to be reduced, which could result in material additional expense to the Company and have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. Inventories were $1,828.7 million and $2,179.5 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. 57 Table of Contents Accounting for business combinations. The acquisition of businesses is an important element of the Companys strategy. Under the purchase method, the Company is required to record the net assets acquired at the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The determination of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Companys financial statements. For example, the Companys acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets; the value and estimated life of those assets may affect the amount of future period amortization expense for intangible assets with finite lives as well as possible impairment charges that may be incurred. Amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets was $6.8 million, $4.8 million and $2.8 million for Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, respectively. Amortizable intangible assets were $75.7 million and $68.5 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Intangible assets with indefinite lives consist primarily of trademarks. The Company is required to analyze its goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis as well as when events and circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Certain factors that may occur and indicate that an impairment exists include, but are not limited to, operating results that are lower than expected and adverse industry or market economic trends. The impairment testing requires management to estimate the fair value of the assets, including the reporting unit goodwill, and record an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. The estimate of fair value of the intangible assets is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows. The estimate of fair value of the reporting unit is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows supplemented by the market approach. In estimating the fair value, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as future cash flows, future revenues, future earnings and other factors. The assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are generally consistent with the past performance of each reporting unit and other intangible assets and are also consistent with the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. The recording of any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. The most significant assumptions used in the discounted future cash flows calculation to determine the fair value of the Companys reporting units and the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives in connection with impairment testing are: (i) the discount rate, (ii) the expected long term growth rate and (iii) the annual cash flow projections. If the Company used a discount rate that was 50 basis points higher or used an expected long term growth rate that was 50 basis points lower or used annual cash flow projections that were 100 basis points lower in its impairment testing of goodwill, then the changes individually, for only the discount rate and the expected long term growth rate, would have resulted in the carrying value of the net assets of one of the reporting units, including its goodwill, exceeding its fair value, which would indicate the potential for impairment and the requirement to measure the amount of impairment, if any. If the Company used a discount rate that was 50 basis points higher or used an expected long term growth rate that was 50 basis points lower or used annual cash flow projections that were 100 basis points lower in its impairment testing of intangible assets with indefinite lives, then the changes individually, for only the discount rate, would have resulted in one unit of accountings carrying value exceeding its fair value. 58 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis. As a result of this analysis, the Company concluded that the carrying amount of goodwill assigned to the Constellation Wines segments U.K. reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value and recorded an impairment loss of $252.7 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, as a result of its annual goodwill impairment analysis, the Company concluded that the carrying amounts of goodwill assigned to the Constellation Wines segments Australian and U.K. reporting units exceeded their implied fair values and recorded impairment losses of $599.9 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. No impairment losses of goodwill were recorded for Fiscal 2007. Goodwill was $2,615.0 million and $3,123.9 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company performed its review of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company determined that certain trademarks associated primarily with the Constellation Wines segments U.K. reporting unit were impaired. Accordingly, the Company recorded impairment losses of $25.9 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company determined that certain intangible assets associated with the Constellation Wines segment, primarily trademarks, were impaired. Accordingly, the Company recorded additional impairment losses of $204.9 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company recorded an immaterial impairment loss for Fiscal 2007 for intangible assets with indefinite lives associated with assets held for sale. Intangible assets with indefinite lives were $924.9 million and $1,121.5 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. 59 Table of Contents Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. The Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method on March 1, 2006. Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), stock based compensation cost is calculated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense, net of estimated pre vesting forfeitures, ratably over the vesting period of the award. In addition, SFAS No. 123(R) requires additional accounting related to the income tax effects and disclosure regarding the cash flow effects resulting from stock based payment arrangements. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107, which provided supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS No. 123(R). The Company selected the Black Scholes option pricing model as the most appropriate fair value method for its awards granted after March 1, 2006. The calculation of fair value of stock based awards requires the input of assumptions, including the expected term of the stock based awards and the associated stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock based awards represent the Companys best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, then stock based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. If the Company used an expected term for its stock based awards that was one year longer, the fair value of stock based awards granted during Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 would have increased by $22.5 million, resulting in an increase of $4.6 million of stock based compensation expense for Fiscal 2009. If the Company used an expected term of the stock based awards that was one year shorter, the fair value of the stock based awards granted during Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 would have decreased by $23.4 million, resulting in a decrease of $4.8 million of stock based compensation expense for Fiscal 2009. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for Fiscal 2009 was $47.5 million, of which $42.9 million was expensed for Fiscal 2009 and $4.6 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 28, 2009. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for Fiscal 2008 was $33.6 million, of which $30.4 million was expensed for Fiscal 2008 and $3.2 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 29, 2008. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for Fiscal 2007 was $18.1 million, of which $16.5 million was expensed for Fiscal 2007 and $1.6 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 28, 2007. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007) (SFAS No. 141(R)), Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141(R), among other things, establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination (i) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired business, (ii) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase, and (iii) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 141(R) for all business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after March 1, 2009. The adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) on March 1, 2009, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 60 Table of Contents In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160 (SFAS No. 160), Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements An Amendment of ARB No. 51. SFAS No. 160 amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (ARB No. 51), Consolidated Financial Statements, to establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. This statement also amends certain of ARB No. 51s consolidation procedures for consistency with the requirements of SFAS No. 141(R). In addition, SFAS No. 160 also includes expanded disclosure requirements regarding the interests of the parent and its noncontrolling interest. The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 160 for fiscal years beginning March 1, 2009. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 on March 1, 2009, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 142 3, (FSP No. 142 3), Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets. FSP No. 142 3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (SFAS No. 142), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The intent of FSP No. 142 3 is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS No. 141(R) and other U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. FSP No. 142 3 is effective for the Company as of March 1, 2009. The adoption of FSP No. 142 3 on March 1, 2009, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements and will be applied prospectively to future business combinations. 61 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company, as a result of its global operating, acquisition and financing activities, is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To manage the volatility relating to these risks, the Company periodically purchases and or sells derivative instruments including foreign currency forward and option contracts and interest rate swap agreements. The Company uses derivative instruments solely to reduce the financial impact of these risks and does not use derivative instruments for trading purposes. Foreign currency derivative instruments are or may be used to hedge existing foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, forecasted foreign currency denominated sales/purchases to/from third parties as well as intercompany sales/purchases, intercompany principal and interest payments, and in connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the U.S. As of February 28, 2009, the Company had exposures to foreign currency risk primarily related to the Australian dollar, euro, New Zealand dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and South African rand. As of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, the Company had outstanding foreign currency derivative instruments with a notional value of $1,719.4 million and $2,473.5 million, respectively. Approximately 73% of the Companys total exposures were hedged as of February 28, 2009. The estimated fair value of the Companys foreign currency derivative instruments was $7.6 million and $6.3 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. Using a sensitivity analysis based on estimated fair value of open contracts using forward rates, if the contract base currency had been 10% weaker as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, the fair value of open foreign currency contracts would have been decreased by $40.4 million and $155.2 million, respectively. Losses or gains from the revaluation or settlement of the related underlying positions would substantially offset such gains or losses on the derivative instruments. The fair value of fixed rate debt is subject to interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk. The estimated fair value of the Companys total fixed rate debt, including current maturities, was $2,353.3 million and $2,507.2 million as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of fixed interest rate long term debt by $107.9 million and $124.7 million, respectively. As of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, the Company had outstanding interest rate swap agreements to minimize interest rate volatility. The swap agreements fix LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% through Fiscal 2010. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, would have increased the fair value of the interest rate swaps by $9.3 million and $23.6 million, respectively. In addition to the $2,353.3 million and $2,507.2 million estimated fair value of fixed rate debt outstanding as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, respectively, the Company also had variable rate debt outstanding (primarily LIBOR based) as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, of $2,036.4 million and $2,749.5 million, respectively. Using a sensitivity analysis based on a hypothetical 1% increase in prevailing interest rates over a 12 month period, the approximate increase in cash required for interest as of February 28, 2009, and February 29, 2008, is $20.4 million and $27.5 million, respectively. 62 Table of Contents 
 
