Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding (i) the Companys business strategy, future financial position, prospects, plans and objectives of management, (ii) the Companys expected restructuring charges, accelerated depreciation and other costs, (iii) information concerning expected or potential actions of third parties, (iv) information concerning the future expected balance of supply and demand for wine, (v) the expected impact upon results of operations resulting from the Companys decision to consolidate its U.S. distributor network, and (vi) the duration of the share repurchase implementation are forward looking statements. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the words anticipate, intend, expect, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements, although not all forward looking statements contain such identifying words. All forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations and conditions in the general economy and markets in which the Company competes, the forward looking statements of the Company contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are also subject to the risk and uncertainty that (i) the impact upon results of operations resulting from the decision to consolidate the Companys U.S. distributor network will vary from current expectations due to actual U.S. distributor experience, (ii) the actual balance of supply and demand for wine products will vary from current expectations due to, among other reasons, actual consumer demand, (iii) the Companys restructuring charges, accelerated depreciation and other costs may vary materially from current expectations due to, among other reasons, variations in anticipated headcount reductions, contract terminations or modifications, equipment relocation, product portfolio rationalizations, production footprint, and or other costs of implementation, and (iv) the amount and timing of any share repurchases may vary due to market conditions, the Companys cash and debt position, and other factors as determined by management from time to time. Additional important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied, by the Companys forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are those described in Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report and in other Company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Introduction Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms Company, we, our, or us refer to Constellation Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and all references to net sales refer to gross sales less promotions, returns and allowances, and excise taxes to conform with the Companys method of classification. All references to Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009 refer to the Companys fiscal year ended the last day of February of the indicated year. All references to Fiscal 2012 refer to the Companys fiscal year ending February 29, 2012. Market positions and industry data discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are as of calendar 2010 and have been obtained or derived from industry and government publications and Company estimates. The industry and government publications include: Beverage Information Group; Impact Databank Review and Forecast; SymphonyIRI Group; Nielsen; Beer Marketers Insights; Euromonitor International; International Wine and Spirit Record; Association for Canadian Distillers; and AZTEC. The Company has not independently verified the data from the industry and government publications. Unless otherwise noted, all references to market positions are based on equivalent unit volume. The Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as the successor to a business founded in 1945. The Company has approximately 4,300 employees located primarily in the United States (U.S.) and Canada with the corporate headquarters located in Victor, New York. The Company conducts its business through entities it wholly owns as well as through a variety of joint ventures and other entities. The Company is the worlds leading premium wine company with a leading market position in each of its core markets, which include the U.S., Canada and New Zealand. Prior to January 31, 2011, the Company had a leading market position in both Australia and the United Kingdom (U.K.) through its Australian and U.K. business. On January 31, 2011, the Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business as part of its efforts to premiumize its portfolio and improve margins and return on invested capital (see additional discussion regarding this divestiture below). The Companys wine portfolio is complemented by select premium spirits brands and other select beverage alcohol products. The Company is the leading marketer of imported beer in the U.S. through its investment in Crown Imports, a joint venture with Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (Modelo) pursuant to which Modelos Mexican beer portfolio (the Modelo Brands) are imported, marketed and sold by the joint venture in the U.S. along with certain other imported brands. Many of the Companys products are recognized leaders in their respective categories and geographic markets. The Companys strong market positions make the Company a supplier of choice to many of its customers, who include wholesale distributors, retailers, on premise locations and government alcohol beverage control agencies. 1 Table of Contents The Company reports net sales in two reportable segments Constellation Wines North America and Constellation Wines Australia and Europe (see additional discussion regarding business segments below). Net sales reported by these segments (based on the location of the selling company) are summarized as follows: For the Year For the Year Ended Ended February 28, % of February 28, % of 2011 Total 2010 Total (in millions) Constellation Wines North America $ 2,557.3 77% $ 2,434.7 72% Constellation Wines Australia and Europe 774.7 23% 930.1 28% Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,332.0 100% $ 3,364.8 100% During the past 10 years, there have been certain key trends within the beverage alcohol industry, which include: Consolidation of suppliers, wholesalers and retailers; An increase in global wine consumption, with premium wines growing faster than value priced wines; Premium spirits growing faster than value priced spirits; and High end beer (imports and crafts) growing faster than domestic beer in the U.S. To capitalize on these trends and become more competitive, the Company has generally employed a strategy focused on a combination of organic growth, acquisitions and investments in joint ventures and other entities, with an increasing focus on the higher margin premium categories of the beverage alcohol industry. Key elements of the Companys strategy include: Leveraging its existing portfolio of leading brands; Developing new products, new packaging and line extensions; Strengthening relationships with wholesalers and retailers; Expanding distribution of its product portfolio; Enhancing production capabilities; Realizing operating efficiencies and synergies; and Maximizing asset utilization. Over the last four fiscal years, the Company has complemented this strategy by divesting certain businesses, brands, and assets as part of its efforts to increase its mix of premium brands, improve margins, create operating efficiencies and reduce debt. A challenging global economic environment contributed to some slowing of premium wine industry growth during calendar 2008 and the first half of calendar 2009. Premium wine industry growth began to show improvement in the second half of calendar 2009 and this trend continued in calendar 2010. The Company believes consumers will continue to trade up to premium wines over the long term. Recent Divestitures In January 2011, the Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business (the CWAE Divestiture) at a transaction value of $266.9 million, subject to post closing adjustments. The Company received cash proceeds, net of cash divested of $15.8 million and direct costs paid of $2.3 million, of $221.3 million, subject to post closing adjustments, and retained a 19.9% interest in the business. This transaction is consistent with the Companys strategic focus on premiumizing the Companys portfolio and improving margins and return on invested capital. 2 Table of Contents In January 2010, the Company sold its U.K. cider business for cash proceeds of 43.9 million ($71.6 million), net of direct costs to sell. This transaction is consistent with the Companys strategic focus on premium higher growth, higher margin wine, beer and spirits brands. In March 2009, as part of its strategic focus on higher margin premium brands in its portfolio, the Company sold its value spirits business for $336.4 million, net of direct costs to sell. The Company received $276.4 million, net of direct costs to sell, in cash proceeds and a note receivable for $60.0 million. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company received full payment of the note receivable. The Company retained the SVEDKA Vodka and Black Velvet Canadian Whisky premium spirit brands, which have marketplace scale and higher margins than the value spirits brands that were sold. To achieve synergies and operating efficiencies, these brands were consolidated into the Companys North American wine operations during Fiscal 2010. In June 2008, the Company sold certain businesses consisting of several California wineries and wine brands that had been acquired as part of the December 2007 acquisition of the Fortune Brands U.S. wine business, as well as certain wineries and wine brands from the states of Washington and Idaho (collectively, the Pacific Northwest Business) for cash proceeds of $204.2 million, net of direct costs to sell. This transaction contributed to the Companys streamlining of its U.S. wine portfolio by eliminating brand duplication and reducing excess production capacity. For more information about these transactions, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Business Segments As a result of the Companys changes during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 within its internal management structure for its Australian and U.K. business, and the Companys revised business strategy within these markets, the Company changed its internal management financial reporting on May 1, 2010, to consist of four business divisions: Constellation Wines North America, Constellation Wines Australia and Europe, Constellation Wines New Zealand and Crown Imports. However, due to a number of factors, including the size of the Constellation Wines New Zealand segments operations, the similarity of its economic characteristics and long term financial performance with that of the Constellation Wines North America business, and the fact that the vast majority of the wine produced by the Constellation Wines New Zealand operating segment is sold in the U.S. and Canada, the Company has aggregated the results of this operating segment with its Constellation Wines North America operating segment to form one reportable segment. Accordingly, beginning May 1, 2010, the Company began reporting its operating results in four segments: Constellation Wines North America (wine and spirits) (CWNA), Constellation Wines Australia and Europe (wine) (CWAE), Corporate Operations and Other, and Crown Imports (imported beer). Prior to the changes noted above, the Companys internal management financial reporting consisted of two business divisions, Constellation Wines and Crown Imports. The business segments, described more fully below, reflect how the Companys operations are managed, how operating performance within the Company is evaluated by senior management and the structure of its internal financial reporting. As a result of the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture, as of February 1, 2011, the Company is no longer reporting operating results for the CWAE segment. Information regarding net sales, operating income and total assets of each of the Companys business segments and information regarding geographic areas is set forth in Note 23 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 3 Table of Contents Constellation Wines North America CWNA is the leading producer and marketer of premium wine in the world. It has a leading market position in each of its core markets U.S., Canada and New Zealand and sells a large number of wine brands across all categories table wine, sparkling wine and dessert wine and across all price points popular, premium, super premium and fine wine. The portfolio of super premium and fine wines is supported by vineyard holdings in the U.S., Canada and New Zealand. Wine produced by the Company in the U.S. is primarily marketed domestically and in the U.K. and Canada. Wine produced in New Zealand is primarily marketed domestically and in the U.S., Canada, Australia and the U.K., while wine produced in Canada is primarily marketed domestically. In addition, CWNA exports its wine products to other major wine consuming markets of the world. In the U.S., CWNA sells 14 of the top selling 100 table wine brands and is the leading premium wine company. In Canada, it has wine across all price points, and has seven of the top selling 25 table wine brands and the leading icewine brand with Inniskillin. CWNAs well known wine brands include Robert Mondavi Brands, Clos du Bois, Blackstone, Estancia, Arbor Mist, Toasted Head, Simi, Black Box, Ravenswood, Rex Goliath, Kim Crawford, Franciscan Estate, Wild Horse, Ruffino, Nobilo, Mount Veeder, Inniskillin and Jackson Triggs. Premium spirit brands in CWNAs portfolio include SVEDKA Vodka, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, all of which have a leading position in their respective categories. CWNA is also a leading producer and marketer of wine kits and beverage alcohol refreshment drinks in Canada. In conjunction with its wine production, CWNA produces and sells bulk wine and other related products and services. Constellation Wines Australia and Europe Prior to the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture, the Companys CWAE segment was a leading producer and marketer of wine in Australia and a leading marketer of wine in the U.K. Wine produced by the Company in Australia was primarily marketed domestically and in the U.K. CWAE had wine brands across all price points and varieties, and was the leading producer of value priced cask (box) wines in Australia. Crown Imports In January 2007, the Company completed the formation of the Crown Imports joint venture with Modelo. The Company and Modelo indirectly each have an equal interest in Crown Imports, which has the exclusive right to import, market and sell the Modelo Brands, which include Corona Extra, Corona Light, Coronita, Modelo Especial, Pacifico, Negra Modelo and Victoria, as well as the St. Pauli Girl and Tsingtao brands in all 50 states of the U.S. In the U.S., Crown Imports has six of the top selling 25 imported beer brands. Corona Extra is the best selling imported beer and the sixth best selling beer overall and Corona Light is the leading imported light beer, while St. Pauli Girl is the number two selling German Beer and Tsingtao is the number one selling Chinese Beer. The Company accounts for its investment in Crown Imports under the equity method. 4 Table of Contents Corporate Operations and Other The Corporate Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate related items including executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global supply chain. Marketing and Distribution The Companys segments employ full time, in house marketing, sales and customer service organizations to maintain a high degree of focus on their respective product categories. The organizations use a range of marketing strategies and tactics designed to build brand equity and increase sales, including market research, consumer and trade advertising, price promotions, point of sale materials, event sponsorship, on premise promotions and public relations. Where opportunities exist, particularly with national accounts in the U.S., the Company leverages its sales and marketing skills across the organization and segments. In North America, the Companys products are primarily distributed by wholesale distributors as well as state and provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies. As is the case with all other beverage alcohol companies, products sold through state or provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies are subject to obtaining and maintaining listings to sell the Companys products in that agencys state or province. State and provincial governments can affect prices paid by consumers of the Companys products. This is possible either through the imposition of taxes or, in states and provinces in which the government acts as the distributor of the Companys products through an alcohol beverage control agency, by directly setting retail prices for the Companys products. In New Zealand, the Companys products are primarily distributed either directly to retailers or through wholesalers and importers with the distribution channels dominated by a small number of industry leaders. Trademarks and Distribution Agreements Trademarks are an important aspect of the Companys business. The Company sells its products under a number of trademarks, which the Company owns or uses under license. Throughout its segments, the Company also has various licenses and distribution agreements for the sale, or the production and sale, of its products and products of third parties. These licenses and distribution agreements have varying terms and durations. At the end of the Companys year ended February 28, 2011, these agreements included, among others, a long term license agreement with the B. Manischewitz Company, which expires in 2042, for the Manischewitz brand, and a distribution, importation and license agreement with Baron Philippe de Rothschild which expires in December 2016 for the Mouton Cadet brand. Additionally, in connection with the CWAE Divestiture, the Company entered into distribution, importation and license agreements that expire in 2014 regarding the distribution, importation and licensing of products owned by the divested business which include various brands, such as, but not limited to, the Hardys brands. 5 Table of Contents All of the Companys imported beer products are imported, marketed and sold through Crown Imports. Crown Imports has entered into exclusive importation agreements with the suppliers of the imported beer products. These agreements have terms that vary and prohibit Crown Imports from importing beer products from other producers from the same country. Crown Imports Mexican beer portfolio, the Modelo Brands, currently consists of the Corona Extra, Corona Light, Coronita, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, Pacifico and Victoria brands. Crown Imports has the right to market and sell the Modelo Brands in all 50 states of the U.S., the District of Columbia and Guam. Crown Imports also has entered into license and importation agreements with the owners of the German St. Pauli Girl and the Chinese Tsingtao brands for their importation, marketing and sale within the U.S. With respect to the Modelo Brands, Crown Imports has an exclusive sub license to use certain trademarks related to Modelo Brands beer products in the U.S. (including the District of Columbia and Guam) pursuant to a sub license agreement between Crown Imports and Marcas Modelo, S.A. de C.V. This sub license agreement continues for the duration of the Crown Imports joint venture. Crown Imports and Extrade II S.A. de C.V. (Extrade II), an affiliate of Modelo, have entered into an Importer Agreement, pursuant to which Extrade II granted to Crown Imports the exclusive right to sell the Modelo Brands in the territories mentioned above. The joint venture and the related importation arrangements provide that, subject to the terms and conditions of those agreements, the joint venture and the related importation arrangements will continue through 2016 for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10 year periods unless GModelo Corporation, a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of Diblo, S.A. de C.V. (Diblo), gives notice prior to the end of year seven of any term. Competition The beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive. The Company competes on the basis of quality, price, brand recognition and distribution strength. The Companys beverage alcohol products compete with other alcoholic and non alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well as shelf space in retail stores, restaurant presence and wholesaler attention. The Company competes with numerous multinational producers and distributors of beverage alcohol products, some of which have greater resources than the Company. CWNAs principal wine competitors include: EJ Gallo Winery, The Wine Group, Treasury Wine Estates, W.J. Deutsch Sons, Ste. Michelle Wine Estates, Kendall Jackson and Diageo in the U.S.; Andrew Peller, Treasury Wine Estates, Kruger and EJ Gallo Winery in Canada; and Pernod Ricard, Lion Nathan and Treasury Wine Estates in New Zealand. CWNAs principal distilled spirits competitors include: Diageo, Fortune Brands, Pernod Ricard, Bacardi and Brown Forman. Crown Imports principal competitors include: Anheuser Busch InBev, MillerCoors and Heineken. Production In the U.S., the Company operates 18 wineries where wine is produced from many varieties of grapes grown principally in the Napa, Sonoma, Monterey and San Joaquin regions of California. The Company also operates nine wineries in Canada and four wineries in New Zealand. Grapes are crushed at most of the Companys wineries and stored as wine until packaged for sale under the Companys brand names or sold in bulk. In the U.S. and Canada, the Companys inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in September through November during and after the crush of each years grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent years crush. Similarly, in New Zealand, the Companys inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels in March through May during and after the crush of each years grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent years crush. 6 Table of Contents The Companys Canadian whisky requirements are produced and aged at its Canadian distillery in Lethbridge, Alberta. The Companys requirements of grains and bulk spirits it uses in the production of Canadian whisky are purchased from various suppliers. Sources and Availability of Production Materials The principal components in the production of the Companys branded beverage alcohol products are agricultural products, such as grapes and grain, and packaging materials (primarily glass). Most of the Companys annual grape requirements are satisfied by purchases from each years harvest which normally begins in August and runs through October in the U.S. and Canada, and begins in February and runs through May in New Zealand. The Company believes that it has adequate sources of grape supplies to meet its sales expectations. However, when demand for certain wine products exceeds expectations, the Company sources the extra requirements from the bulk wine markets. Depending upon overall demand, the Company could experience shortages. The Company receives grapes from approximately 1,160 independent growers in the U.S., approximately 110 independent growers in New Zealand and approximately 110 independent growers in Canada. The Company enters into written purchase agreements with a majority of these growers and pricing generally varies year to year and is generally based on then current market prices. At February 28, 2011, the Company owned or leased approximately 17,900 acres of land and vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California (U.S.), New York (U.S.), Canada and New Zealand. This acreage supplies only a small percentage of the Companys overall total grape needs for wine production. However, most of this acreage is used to supply a large portion of the grapes used for the production of the Companys super premium and fine wines. The Company continues to consider the purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional land for vineyard plantings, to supplement its grape supply. The distilled spirits manufactured and imported by the Company require various agricultural products, neutral grain spirits and bulk spirits. The Company fulfills its requirements through purchases from various sources by contractual arrangement and through purchases on the open market. The Company believes that adequate supplies of the aforementioned products are available at the present time. The Company utilizes glass and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles and other materials such as caps, corks, capsules, labels, wine bags and cardboard cartons in the bottling and packaging of its products. After grape purchases, glass bottle costs are the largest component of the Companys cost of product sold. In the U.S. and Canada, the glass bottle industry is highly concentrated with only a small number of producers. The Company has traditionally obtained, and continues to obtain, its glass requirements from a limited number of producers under long term supply arrangements. Currently, one producer supplies most of the Companys glass container requirements for its U.S. operations and another producer supplies a majority of the Companys glass container requirements for its Canadian operations. The Company has been able to satisfy its requirements with respect to the foregoing and considers its sources of supply to be adequate at this time. However, the inability of any of the Companys glass bottle suppliers to satisfy the Companys requirements could adversely affect the Companys operations. 7 Table of Contents Government Regulation The Company is subject to a range of regulations in the countries in which it operates. Where it produces products, the Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations and may be required to obtain permits and licenses to operate its facilities. Where it markets and sells products, it may be subject to laws and regulations on trademark and brand registration, packaging and labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes, sales promotions, advertising and public relations. The Company is also subject to rules and regulations relating to changes in officers or directors, ownership or control. The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates. The Company also believes that the cost of administration and compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations does not have, and is not expected to have, a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Seasonality The beverage alcohol industry is subject to seasonality in each major category. As a result, in response to wholesaler and retailer demand which precedes consumer purchases, the Companys wine and spirits sales are typically highest during the third quarter of its fiscal year, primarily due to seasonal holiday buying. Crown Imports imported beer sales are typically highest during the first and second quarters of the Companys fiscal year, which correspond to the Spring and Summer periods in the U.S. Employees As of the end of March 2011, the Company had approximately 4,300 full time employees. Approximately 2,800 full time employees were in the U.S. and approximately 1,500 full time employees were outside of the U.S., primarily in Canada and New Zealand. Additional workers may be employed by the Company during the grape crushing seasons. The Company considers its employee relations generally to be good. Company Information The Companys internet address is http://www.cbrands.com. The Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including its annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible free of charge at http://www.cbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The internet address of the SECs site is http://www.sec.gov. Also, the public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The Company has adopted a Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics that specifically applies to its chief executive officer, its principal financial officer, and controller. This Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics meets the requirements as set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 406 of Regulation S K. The Company has posted on its internet website a copy of the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics. It is located at http://www.cbrands.com/investors/corporate governance. 8 Table of Contents The Company also has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all employees, directors and officers, including each person who is subject to the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on the Companys internet website, together with the Companys Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing, its Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Charters of the Boards Audit Committee, Human Resources Committee (which serves as the Boards compensation committee) and Corporate Governance Committee (which serves as the Boards nominating committee). All of these materials are accessible on the Companys Internet site at http://www.cbrands.com/investors/corporate governance. Amendments to, and waivers granted to the Companys directors and executive officers under the Companys codes of ethics, if any, will be posted in this area of the Companys website. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics, and or the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines and committee charters are available in print to any shareholder who requests it. Shareholders should direct such requests in writing to Investor Relations Department, Constellation Brands, Inc., 207 High Point Drive, Building 100, Victor, New York 14564, or by telephoning the Companys Investor Center at 1 888 922 2150. The foregoing information regarding the Companys website and its content is for your convenience only. The content of the Companys website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this report or filed with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. Worldwide and domestic economic trends and financial market conditions could adversely impact our financial performance. Although we believe the severe worldwide and domestic economic conditions experienced over recent years have improved, the degree and pace of recovery is uncertain and is expected to vary around the globe. Worldwide and domestic economies remain subject to prolongation, exacerbation and expansion of adverse conditions. We are subject to risks associated with adverse economic conditions, including economic slowdown, inflation, and the disruption, volatility and tightening of credit and capital markets. In addition, adverse global or domestic economic situations could adversely impact our major suppliers, distributors and retailers. The inability of suppliers, distributors or retailers to conduct business or to access liquidity could impact our ability to produce and distribute our products. We have a committed credit facility and additional liquidity facilities available to us. While to date we have not experienced problems with accessing these facilities, to the extent that the financial institutions that participate in these facilities were to default on their obligation to fund, those funds would not be available to us. 9 Table of Contents The timing and nature of any recovery in the financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future. A prolonged downturn, further worsening or broadening of the adverse conditions in the worldwide and domestic economies, or return of high levels of inflation could affect consumer spending patterns and purchases of our products, and create or exacerbate credit issues, cash flow issues and other financial hardships for us and for our suppliers, distributors, retailers and consumers. Depending upon their severity and duration, these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We are not able to predict the pace of recovery of the recent adverse economic conditions in the United States and our other major markets outside the United States. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial health. We have incurred substantial indebtedness to finance our acquisitions. In the future, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance further acquisitions, the buyback of our shares or for other purposes. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance. We do not have complete control over our future operating performance because it is subject to prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business and other factors. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet all of our debt service requirements and to fund our capital expenditure requirements. Our current and future debt service obligations and covenants could have important consequences to you. These consequences include, or may include, the following: Our ability to obtain financing for future working capital needs or acquisitions or other purposes may be limited; Our funds available for operations, expansion or distributions will be reduced because we will dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; Our ability to conduct our business could be limited by restrictive covenants; and Our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be greater than less leveraged competitors and, thus, our ability to withstand competitive pressures may be limited. Our senior credit facility and the indentures under which our debt securities have been issued contain restrictive covenants. These covenants affect our ability to, among other things, grant liens and restrict changes of control and certain other fundamental changes. Our senior credit facility also contains covenants that restrict our ability to make acquisitions, incur debt, sell assets, pay dividends, enter into transactions with affiliates and make investments. It also contains certain financial covenants, including a debt ratio test and an interest coverage ratio test. These covenants could limit our ability to conduct business. If we fail to comply with the obligations contained in the senior credit facility, our existing or future indentures or other loan agreements, we could be in default under such agreements, which could require us to immediately repay the related debt and also debt under other agreements that may contain cross acceleration or cross default provisions. 10 Table of Contents Our acquisition, divestiture and joint venture strategies may not be successful. We have made a number of acquisitions and we anticipate that we may, from time to time, acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. We will need to integrate acquired businesses with our existing operations. We cannot assure you that we will effectively assimilate the business or product offerings of acquired companies into our business or realize anticipated operational synergies. Integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies into our existing operations or separating from our existing operations the operations and personnel of businesses of which we divest may result in difficulties, significant expense and accounting charges, disrupt our business or divert managements time and attention. In connection with the integration of acquired operations or the conduct of our overall business strategies, we may periodically restructure our businesses and or sell assets or portions of our business, including the recent sales of 80.1% of our Australian and U.K. business, our U.K. cider business and our value spirits business. We may not achieve expected cost savings or efficiencies from restructuring activities or realize the expected proceeds from sales of assets or portions of our business, and actual charges, costs and adjustments due to restructuring activities may vary materially from our estimates. We may provide various indemnifications in connection with the sale of assets or portions of our business. Additionally, our final determinations and appraisals of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions may vary materially from earlier estimates. We cannot assure you that the fair value of acquired businesses will remain constant. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the U.S., we may enter into derivative contracts to purchase foreign currency in order to hedge against the risk of foreign currency fluctuations in connection with such acquisitions or joint venture investments, which subjects us to the risk of foreign currency fluctuations associated with such derivative contracts. We have also acquired or retained equity or membership interests in companies which we do not control, such as our holdings in Ruffino S.r.l. and our retained 19.9% interest in certain companies that comprised our Australian and U.K. business. The other parties that hold the remaining equity or membership interests in these types of companies may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of those companies. The arrangements through which we acquired or hold our equity or membership interests may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to purchase other parties interests. Our failure to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisition, or the failure of an entity in which we have an equity or membership interest, could adversely affect our financial condition or our valuation of these types of investments. We have entered into joint ventures, including our joint venture with Modelo and our holdings in Opus One Winery LLC, and we may enter into additional joint ventures. We share control of our joint ventures. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the joint venture. Our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Our failure or the failure of an entity in which we have a joint venture interest to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that any of our acquisitions, investments or joint ventures will be profitable or that forecasts regarding joint venture activities will be accurate. In particular, risks and uncertainties associated with our joint ventures include, among others, the joint ventures ability to operate its business successfully, the joint ventures ability to develop appropriate standards, controls, procedures and policies for the growth and management of the joint venture and the strength of the joint ventures relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers. Competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are in a highly competitive industry and the dollar amount and unit volume of our sales could be negatively affected by our inability to maintain or increase prices, changes in geographic or product mix, a general decline in beverage alcohol consumption or the decision of wholesalers, retailers or consumers to purchase competitive products instead of our products. Wholesaler, retailer and consumer purchasing decisions are influenced by, among other things, the perceived absolute or relative overall value of our products, including their quality or pricing, compared to competitive products. Unit volume and dollar sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising or promotional decisions made by wholesalers, state and provincial agencies, and retailers which could affect their supply of, or consumer demand for, our products. We could also experience higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses if we find it necessary to increase the number of our personnel or our advertising or marketing expenditures to maintain our competitive position or for other reasons. An increase in import and excise duties or other taxes or government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S., Canada and other countries in which we operate impose import and excise duties and other taxes on beverage alcohol products in varying amounts which have been subject to change. Significant increases in import and excise duties or other taxes on beverage alcohol products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Many U.S. states have considered proposals to increase, and some of these states have increased, state alcohol excise taxes. There may be further consideration by governmental entities to increase taxes upon beverage alcohol products as governmental entities explore available alternatives for raising funds during the current macroeconomic climate. In addition, federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies extensively regulate the beverage alcohol products industry concerning such matters as licensing, trade and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers. Certain federal and state or provincial regulations also require warning labels and signage. New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees, requirements or taxes could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Benefit cost increases could reduce our profitability. Our profitability is affected by employee medical costs and other employee benefits. In recent years, employee medical costs have increased due to factors such as the increase in health care costs in the U.S. These factors, plus the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in March 2010, will continue to put pressure on our business and financial performance due to higher employee benefit costs. Although we actively seek to control increases in employee benefit costs and encourage employees to maintain healthy lifestyles to reduce future potential medical costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases. Continued employee benefit cost increases could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We also sponsor a very limited number of defined benefit plans that cover some of our non U.S. employees. Our costs of providing defined benefit plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as discount rates, the rates of return on the plans assets, exchange rate fluctuations, future governmental regulation, global equity prices, and our required and or voluntary contributions to the plans. Without sustained growth in pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans assets, and depending upon the other factors relating to worldwide and domestic economic trends and financial market conditions, we could be required to increase funding for some or all of our defined benefit plans. We rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, major retailers and government agencies for the success of our business. Local market structures and distribution channels vary worldwide. In the U.S., we sell our products principally to wholesalers for resale to retail outlets including grocery stores, club and discount stores, package liquor stores and restaurants and also directly to government agencies, while in Canada, we sell our products principally to government agencies. In the U.S., we have entered into exclusive arrangements with certain wholesalers that generate a large portion of our U.S. net sales. The replacement or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers or government agencies could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to collect accounts receivable from our major wholesalers, retailers or government agencies could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the wholesale and retail distribution channels, particularly in the U.S. If we are unable to successfully adapt to this changing environment, our net income, market share and volume growth could be negatively affected. In addition, wholesalers and retailers of our products offer products which compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, wholesalers or retailers may give higher priority to products of our competitors. In the future, our wholesalers and retailers may not continue to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support. Our business could be adversely affected by a decline in the consumption of products we sell. While over the past several years there have been modest increases in consumption of beverage alcohol in most of our product categories and geographic markets, there have been periods in the past in which there were substantial declines in the overall per capita consumption of beverage alcohol products in the U.S. and other markets in which we participate. A limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including: A general decline in economic or geo political conditions; Increased concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol products and about drinking and driving; A general decline in the consumption of beverage alcohol products in on premise establishments, such as may result from smoking bans and stricter laws related to driving while under the influence of alcohol; A trend toward a healthier diet including lighter, lower calorie beverages such as diet soft drinks, sports drinks and water products; The increased activity of anti alcohol groups; Increased federal, state, provincial or foreign excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol products; and Increased regulation placing restrictions on the purchase or consumption of beverage alcohol products. 13 Table of Contents We are primarily a branded consumer products company and we rely on consumers demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including changes in demographic or social trends, public health policies, and changes in leisure, dining and beverage consumption patterns. Our continued success will require us to anticipate and respond effectively to shifts in consumer behavior and drinking tastes. If consumer preferences were to move away from our premium brands in any of our major markets, our financial results might be adversely affected. Other factors may also reduce consumer spending on our products, including economic declines, inflation, a trend towards frugality even as the economy improves, wars, pandemics, weather, and natural or man made disasters. As the cost of gasoline and other petroleum based products increases, consumers may not have as much discretionary funds available to buy our products. In addition, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products. The launch and ongoing success of new products are inherently uncertain especially with regard to their appeal to consumers. The launch of a new product can give rise to a variety of costs and an unsuccessful launch, among other things, can affect consumer perception of existing brands. Unsuccessful implementation or short lived popularity of our product innovations may result in inventory write offs and other costs. We generally purchase raw materials under short term supply contracts, and we are subject to substantial price fluctuations for grapes and grape related materials, and we have a limited group of suppliers of glass bottles. Our business is heavily dependent upon raw materials, such as grapes, grape juice concentrate, grains, alcohol and packaging materials from third party suppliers. We could experience raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties that could adversely affect our ability to supply goods to our customers. Increases in the costs of raw materials also directly affect us. In the past, we have experienced dramatic increases in the cost of grapes. Although we believe we have adequate sources of grape supplies, we could experience shortages if the demand for particular wine products exceeds expectations. The wine industry swings between cycles of grape oversupply and undersupply. In a severe oversupply environment, the ability of wine producers, including ourselves, to raise prices is limited, and, in certain situations, the competitive environment may put pressure on producers to lower prices. Further, although an oversupply may enhance opportunities to purchase grapes at lower costs, a producers selling and promotional expenses associated with the sale of its wine products can rise in such an environment. Glass bottle costs are one of our largest components of cost of product sold. In the U.S. and Canada, glass bottles have only a small number of producers. Currently, one producer supplies most of our glass container requirements for our U.S. operations and another producer supplies substantially all of our glass container requirements for our Canadian operations. The inability of any of our glass bottle suppliers to satisfy our requirements could adversely affect our business. 14 Table of Contents Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business, operations or financial performance, and water scarcity or poor quality could negatively impact our production costs and capacity. Our business depends upon agricultural activity and natural resources. There has been much public discussion related to concerns that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. Severe weather events and climate change may negatively affect agricultural productivity in the regions from which we presently source our agricultural raw materials such as grapes. Decreased availability of our raw materials may increase the cost of goods for our products. Changes in frequency or intensity of weather can also disrupt our supply chain, which may affect production operations, insurance cost and coverage, as well as delivery of our products to wholesalers, retailers and consumers. Water is essential in the production of our products and the quality and quantity of water available for use is important to the supply of grapes and our ability to operate our business. Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and if climate patterns change and droughts become more severe, there may be a scarcity of water or poor water quality which may affect our production costs or impose capacity constraints. Such events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations subject us to risks relating to currency rate fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations and geopolitical uncertainty which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have operations in Canada and New Zealand, our products are produced in various countries around the world and we sell our products in numerous countries throughout the world. Therefore, we are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. We are also exposed to risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. We manage our exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risks utilizing derivative instruments and other means to reduce those risks. We could experience changes in our ability to hedge against or manage fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing those risks. We could also be affected by nationalizations or unstable governments or legal systems or intergovernmental disputes. These currency, economic and political uncertainties may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, especially to the extent these matters, or the decisions, policies or economic strength of our suppliers, affect our global operations. We have a material amount of intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarks, and if we are required to write down any of these intangible assets, it would reduce our net income, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During the years ended February 28, 2011, February 28, 2010, and February 28, 2009, we recorded impairment losses of $23.6 million, $103.2 million and $300.4 million, respectively, on our goodwill and or other intangible assets. We continue to have a significant amount of intangible assets such as goodwill and trademarks and may acquire more intangible assets in the future. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) guidance for intangibles goodwill and other, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are subject to a periodic impairment evaluation. Reductions in our net income caused by the write down of any of these intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents The termination of our joint venture with Modelo relating to importing, marketing and selling imported beer could have a material adverse effect on our business. On January 2, 2007, we participated in establishing and commencing operations of a joint venture with Modelo, pursuant to which Corona Extra and the other Modelo Brands are imported, marketed and sold by the joint venture in the U.S. (including the District of Columbia) and Guam along with certain other imported beer brands in their respective territories. Pursuant to the joint venture and related importation arrangements, the joint venture will continue for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10 year periods unless GModelo Corporation, a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of Diblo, gives notice prior to the end of year seven of any term of its intention to purchase our interest we hold through our subsidiary, Constellation Beers Ltd. (Constellation Beers). The joint venture may also terminate under other circumstances involving action by governmental authorities, certain changes in control of us or Constellation Beers as well as in connection with certain breaches of the importation and related sub license agreements, after notice and cure periods. The termination of the joint venture by acquisition of Constellation Beers interest or for other reasons noted above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Class action or other litigation relating to alcohol abuse, the misuse of alcohol, product liability or marketing or sales practices could adversely affect our business. There has been public attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry, which we believe is due to concern over problems related to alcohol abuse, including drinking and driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. We also could be exposed to lawsuits relating to product liability or marketing or sales practices. Adverse developments in lawsuits concerning these types of matters or a significant decline in the social acceptability of beverage alcohol products that results from lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. Product contamination or tampering or the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials obtained from suppliers, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. If any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and or be subject to liability. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. Our reputation could be impacted negatively by public perception, adverse publicity (whether or not valid), or our responses relating to: A perceived failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities; Our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water and energy use and waste management; or Efforts that are perceived as insufficient to promote the responsible use of alcohol. 16 Table of Contents Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation, competitive position and brand equity. We depend upon our trademarks and proprietary rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property rights or any claims that we are infringing upon the rights of others may adversely affect our competitive position and brand equity. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our current and future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. We have been granted numerous trademark registrations covering our brands and products and have filed, and expect to continue to file, trademark applications seeking to protect newly developed brands and products. We cannot be sure that trademark registrations will be issued with respect to any of our trademark applications. There is also a risk that we could, by omission, fail to timely renew or protect a trademark or that our competitors will challenge, invalidate or circumvent any existing or future trademarks issued to, or licensed by, us. Contamination could harm the integrity of or consumer support for our brands and adversely affect the sales of our products. The success of our brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of those brands. Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for those brands, could adversely affect their sales. Contaminants in raw materials purchased from third parties and used in the production of our wine and spirits products or defects in the distillation or fermentation process could lead to low beverage quality as well as illness among, or injury to, consumers of our products and may result in reduced sales of the affected brand or all of our brands. An increase in the cost of energy or the cost of environmental regulatory compliance could affect our profitability. We have experienced significant increases in energy costs, and energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs. We may experience significant future increases in the costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance. Our future operating expenses and margins will be dependent on our ability to manage the impact of cost increases. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to pass along increased energy costs or increased costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance to our customers through increased prices. In addition, we may be party to various environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of our business or in connection with historical activities of businesses we acquire. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants in our current and former properties, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs that we have estimated. We cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our projections or otherwise have an adverse effect upon our business reputation, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our reliance upon complex information systems distributed worldwide and our reliance upon third party global networks means we could experience interruptions to our business services. We depend on information technology to enable us to operate efficiently and interface with customers, as well as maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate, and effectively manage, the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. As with all large systems, our information systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business operations and could result in the loss of assets and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have outsourced various functions to third party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future. We rely on those third party service providers to provide services on a timely and effective basis. Although we closely monitor the performance of these third parties and maintain contingency plans in case they are unable to perform as agreed, we do not ultimately control their performance. Their failure to perform as expected or as required by contract could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow, and could impair our ability to make required filings with various reporting agencies on a timely or accurate basis. Changes in accounting standards and guidance and taxation requirements could affect our financial results. New accounting guidance that may become applicable to us from time to time, or changes in the interpretations of existing guidance, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board continue to work towards a convergence of accounting standards. Certain standards may become applicable to us and change the interpretation of existing guidance. Such events could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and or sales or value added taxes in many jurisdictions in which we operate. Increases in indirect taxes could affect our products affordability and therefore reduce our sales. We are also subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions in which we generate revenues. Changes in tax laws, tax rates or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Our tax liabilities are affected by the mix of pretax income or loss among the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. We must exercise judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, interest and penalties; accordingly, future events could change managements assessment of these amounts. Various diseases, pests and certain weather conditions could affect quality and quantity of grapes or other agricultural raw materials. Various diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts and certain other weather conditions could affect the quality and quantity of grapes and other agricultural raw materials available, decreasing the supply of our products and negatively impacting profitability. We cannot guarantee that our grape suppliers or suppliers of other agricultural raw materials will succeed in preventing contamination in existing vineyards or fields or that we will succeed in preventing contamination in our existing vineyards or future vineyards we may acquire. Future government restrictions regarding the use of certain materials used in grape growing may increase vineyard costs and or reduce production. Growing agricultural raw materials also requires adequate water supplies. A substantial reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of grape crops and vines or other crops, which could lead to a shortage of our product supply. 18 Table of Contents Risks generally associated with building and sustaining our information technology infrastructure or implementation of our integrated technology platform may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. We have undertaken a comprehensive, multi year business transformation initiative that we call Project Fusion. Project Fusion is our effort to create, design, implement and migrate certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise wide systems solution intended to improve our reporting capabilities and cost efficiencies. It is a planned initiative that will include an integrated technology platform intended to improve the accessibility of information, the visibility of global data, further enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of our business operations. Enterprise resource planning system projects, such as Project Fusion, are complex and time consuming projects that can involve substantial expenditures for system hardware, software, management focus and implementation activities that can continue for several years. There can be no certainty that Project Fusion will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver system and process upgrades on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. Project Fusion will include an upgrade to our existing business accounting and journal entry system. This upgrade will be deployed for use throughout our company in various go live phases targeted to begin in the second quarter of Fiscal 2012. Upgrading an accounting system and conversion to a new information technology platform is costly and involves risks inherent in the conversion to the upgraded system, including potential loss of information, disruption to our normal operations, changes in accounting procedures and internal control over financial reporting, as well as problems achieving accuracy in the conversion of electronic data. Although we are expending resources which are intended to properly or adequately address these issues, implementation risks include a potential increase in costs, the diversion of managements and employees attention and resources and a potentially adverse affect on our operating results, internal controls over financial reporting and ability to manage our business effectively. While Project Fusion is intended to further improve and enhance our information systems, it exposes us to the risks of integrating the system upgrades with our existing systems and processes. Disruption of our financial reporting could impair our ability to make required filings with various reporting agencies on a timely or accurate basis. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. Item 2. Properties. Through its business segments, the Company operates wineries, a distilling plant and bottling plants, many of which include warehousing and distribution facilities on the premises. In addition to the Companys properties described below, certain of the Companys businesses maintain office space for sales and similar activities and offsite warehouse and distribution facilities in a variety of geographic locations. The Company believes that its facilities, taken as a whole, are in good condition and working order and have adequate capacity to meet its needs for the foreseeable future, although it does possess certain underutilized assets. 19 Table of Contents As a result of the January 2011 sale of 80.1% of the Companys Australian and U.K. business, as of February 1, 2011, the Company is no longer reporting results for its CWAE segment. The following discussion details the properties associated with the Companys remaining three business segments. Constellation Wines North America Through the Constellation Wines North America segment (CWNA), the Company maintains facilities in the U.S., New Zealand and Canada. These facilities include wineries, a distilling plant, bottling plants, warehousing and distribution facilities, distribution centers and office facilities. The segment maintains owned and or leased division offices in a variety of locations, including Canandaigua, New York; St. Helena, California; San Francisco, California; Chicago, Illinois; Mississauga, Ontario; and Huapai, New Zealand. United States In the U.S., the Company, through its CWNA segment, operates one winery in New York, located in Canandaigua; 16 wineries in California, located in Acampo, Geyserville, Gonzales, Healdsburg, Madera, Oakville, Soledad, Rutherford, Templeton, Ukiah, two in Lodi, two in Napa, two in Sonoma; and one winery in Washington, located in Prosser. Sixteen of these wineries are owned and one winery in Napa, California and one winery in Sonoma, California are leased. The Company considers the segments principal facilities in the U.S. to be the Mission Bell winery in Madera (California), the Canandaigua winery in Canandaigua (New York), the Franciscan Vineyards winery in Rutherford (California), the Woodbridge Winery in Acampo (California), the Turner Road Vintners Wineries in Lodi (California), the Robert Mondavi Winery in Oakville (California), the Clos du Bois Winery in Geyserville (California) and the Gonzales Winery in Gonzales (California). The Mission Bell winery crushes grapes, produces, bottles and distributes wine and produces specialty concentrates and Mega Colors for sale. The Canandaigua winery crushes grapes and produces, bottles and distributes wine. The other principal wineries crush grapes, vinify, cellar and bottle wine. In California, the CWNA segment also operates a distribution center and two warehouses and, in New York, operates a warehouse, all of which are leased. Through the CWNA segment, as of February 28, 2011, the Company owned or leased approximately 12,100 acres of vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California and New York to supply a portion of the grapes used in the production of wine. Canada Through the CWNA segment, the Company operates nine Canadian wineries, four of which are in British Columbia, four in Ontario, and one in Quebec. Seven of these wineries are owned, one winery in British Columbia is leased and one winery in Ontario is leased. The British Columbia and Ontario operations all harvest a domestic crop and all locations vinify and cellar wines. Four wineries include bottling and or packaging operations. The Company also operates a warehousing and distribution facility and sales office in Scoudouc, New Brunswick. In addition, through the segment, the Company operates facilities in Vancouver, British Columbia and Kitchener, Ontario in connection with its beer and wine making kit business. The Company also operates various retail stores in rented facilities throughout Ontario. The Company considers the segments principal facilities in Canada to be Niagara Cellars located in Niagara Falls (Ontario), the Vincor Quebec Division located in Rougemont (Quebec), the Vincor Production Facility located in Oliver (British Columbia) and the warehousing and distribution facility located in Scoudouc (New Brunswick). 20 Table of Contents Through the CWNA segment, as of February 28, 2011, the Company owned or leased approximately 1,800 acres of vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in Ontario and British Columbia to supply a portion of the grapes used in the production of wine. Through this segment, the Company currently owns and operates a distilling plant located in Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada. This facility distills, bottles and stores Canadian whisky for the segment, and distills and or bottles and stores Canadian whisky, vodka, rum, gin and liqueurs for third parties. The Company considers this facility to be a principal facility. New Zealand Through the CWNA segment, the Company owns and operates four wineries in New Zealand. All of these New Zealand wineries vinify and cellar wine, and three of these wineries crush grapes. One includes bottling and packaging operations. The Company considers the segments principal facilities in New Zealand to be the Nobilo Winery located in Huapai, West Auckland (North Island) and the Drylands Winery located in Marlborough (South Island). Through the CWNA segment, as of February 28, 2011, the Company owns or has interests in approximately 4,000 acres of vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in New Zealand. Crown Imports Crown Imports has entered into various arrangements to satisfy its warehouse requirements. It currently has contracted with seven providers of warehouse space and services in a total of 12 locations throughout the U.S. Crown Imports maintains leased offices in Chicago, Illinois as well as in four other locations throughout the U.S. Corporate Operations and Other The Companys corporate headquarters are located in leased offices in Victor, New York. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In the ordinary course of their business, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to lawsuits, arbitrations, claims and other legal proceedings in connection with their business. Some of the legal actions include claims for substantial or unspecified compensatory and or punitive damages. A substantial adverse judgment or other unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Management believes that the Company has adequate legal defenses with respect to the legal proceedings to which it is a defendant or respondent and that the outcome of these pending proceedings is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. However, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters. Regulatory Matters The Company and its subsidiaries are in discussions with various governmental agencies concerning matters raised during regulatory examinations or otherwise subject to such agencies inquiry. These matters could result in censures, fines or other sanctions. Management believes the outcome of any pending regulatory matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters. 21 Table of Contents On February 14, 2011, a subsidiary of the Company received from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) a Notification of Potential Enforcement Action for Violations of Section 112(r)(7) of the Clean Air Act. The notification is based on the findings of an October 2009 inspection of the Companys Woodbridge Winery facility by the EPA. The EPA has indicated that anticipated allegations against the Company include the failure to recertify or replace ammonia system relief valves in the facility within the timeframes as required under risk management plan regulations for prevention of accidental releases and related paperwork deficiencies. The Company promptly effected all necessary corrections when the deficiencies were brought to its attention in 2009 and has fully cooperated with all of the EPAs requests. No ammonia relief valves malfunctioned and there was no discharge of materials into the environment as a result of these deficiencies. The Company believes that its Woodbridge Winery is currently in compliance with the relevant section of the Clean Air Act. On March 28, 2011, the EPA extended to the Company an opportunity to discuss resolving any penalty action prior to the filing of a formal Determination of Violation, Compliance Order and Notice of Right to Request a Hearing. The EPA has indicated that it will propose a penalty of $226,000. The Company will dispute such a penalty. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved). Executive Officers of the Company Information with respect to the current executive officers of the Company is as follows: NAME AGE OFFICE OR POSITION HELD Richard Sands 60 Chairman of the Board Robert Sands 52 President and Chief Executive Officer F. Paul Hetterich 48 Executive Vice President, Business Development, Corporate Strategy and International Thomas J. Mullin 59 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Robert Ryder 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer W. Keith Wilson 60 Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources and Administrative Officer John A. (Jay) Wright 52 President, Constellation Wines North America Richard Sands, Ph.D., is the Chairman of the Board of the Company. He has been employed by the Company in various capacities since 1979. He has served as a director since 1982. In September 1999, Mr. Sands was elected Chairman of the Board. He served as Chief Executive Officer from October 1993 to July 2007, as Executive Vice President from 1982 to May 1986, as President from May 1986 to December 2002 and as Chief Operating Officer from May 1986 to October 1993. He is the brother of Robert Sands. Robert Sands is President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. He was appointed Chief Executive Officer in July 2007 and appointed as President in December 2002. He has served as a director since January 1990. Mr. Sands also served as Chief Operating Officer from December 2002 to July 2007, as Group President from April 2000 through December 2002, as Chief Executive Officer, International from December 1998 through April 2000, as Executive Vice President from October 1993 through April 2000, as General Counsel from June 1986 through May 2000, and as Vice President from June 1990 through October 1993. He is the brother of Richard Sands. 22 Table of Contents F. Paul Hetterich has been the Companys Executive Vice President, Business Development, Corporate Strategy and International since July 2009. From June 2003 until July 2009, he served as Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy. From April 2001 to June 2003, Mr. Hetterich served as the Companys Senior Vice President, Corporate Development. Prior to that, Mr. Hetterich held several increasingly senior positions in the Companys marketing and business development groups. Mr. Hetterich has been with the Company since 1986. Thomas J. Mullin joined the Company as Executive Vice President and General Counsel in May 2000. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Mullin served as President and Chief Executive Officer of TD Waterhouse Bank, NA, a national banking association, since February 2000, of CT USA, F.S.B. since September 1998, and of CT USA, Inc. since March 1997. He also served as Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy of C.T. Financial Services, Inc. from March 1997 through February 2000. From 1985 through 1997, Mr. Mullin served as Vice Chairman and Senior Executive Vice President of First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Rochester, New York and from 1982 through 1985, he was a partner in the law firm of Phillips Lytle LLP. Robert Ryder joined the Company in May 2007 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Ryder previously served from 2005 to 2006 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Administrative Officer of IMG, a sports marketing and media company. From 2002 to 2005, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of American Greetings Corporation, a publicly traded, multi national consumer products company. From 1989 to 2002, he held several management positions of increasing responsibility with PepsiCo, Inc. These included control, strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions and CFO and Controller positions serving at PepsiCos corporate headquarters and at its Frito Lay International and Frito Lay North America divisions. Mr. Ryder is a certified public accountant. W. Keith Wilson joined the Company in January 2002 as Senior Vice President, Human Resources. In September 2002, he was elected Chief Human Resources Officer and in April 2003 he was elected Executive Vice President. In July 2007, he was appointed Chief Administrative Officer while retaining the position of Executive Vice President. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Wilson served as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources of Xerox Engineering Systems, a subsidiary of Xerox Corporation, which engineers, manufactures and sells hi tech reprographics equipment and software worldwide. From 1990 to 1999, he served in various senior human resource positions with the banking, marketing and real estate and relocation businesses of Prudential Life Insurance of America, an insurance company that also provides other financial products. John A. (Jay) Wright is currently President, Constellation Wines North America and the President of Constellation Wines U.S., Inc., having held these positions since December 2009. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer of Constellation Wines U.S., Inc. from March 2009 until December 2009. Mr. Wright joined the Company in June 2006 with the Companys acquisition of Vincor International Inc. Mr. Wright served as President of Vincor International Inc. from June 2006 until March 2009 and, prior to that, as President and Chief Operating Officer of Vincor International Inc.s Canadian Wine Division from October 2001 until June 2006. Before that, he held various positions of increasing responsibility with various other consumer products companies. Executive officers of the Company are generally chosen or elected to their positions annually and hold office until the earlier of their removal or resignation or until their successors are chosen and qualified. 23 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. The Companys Class A Common Stock (the Class A Stock) and Class B Common Stock (the Class B Stock) trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbols STZ and STZ.B, respectively. There is no public trading market for the Companys Class 1 Common Stock. The following tables set forth for the periods indicated the high and low sales prices of the Class A Stock and the Class B Stock as reported on the NYSE. CLASS A STOCK 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter Fiscal 2010 High $ 13.50 $ 15.20 $ 17.56 $ 17.46 Low $ 10.72 $ 11.62 $ 14.36 $ 14.60 Fiscal 2011 High $ 18.87 $ 17.56 $ 21.01 $ 22.52 Low $ 15.06 $ 14.97 $ 16.64 $ 18.84 CLASS B STOCK 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter Fiscal 2010 High $ 13.53 $ 15.12 $ 17.50 $ 17.22 Low $ 10.50 $ 11.75 $ 14.62 $ 14.75 Fiscal 2011 High $ 18.74 $ 17.44 $ 20.94 $ 22.29 Low $ 15.00 $ 15.03 $ 16.82 $ 18.50 At April 19, 2011, the number of holders of record of Class A Stock and Class B Stock of the Company were 904 and 178, respectively. There were no holders of record of Class 1 Common Stock. With respect to its common stock, the Companys policy is to retain all of its earnings to finance the development and expansion of its business, and the Company has not paid any cash dividends on its common stock since its initial public offering in 1973. In addition, the Companys senior credit facility limits the cash dividends that can be paid by the Company on its common stock to an amount determined in accordance with the terms of the 2006 Credit Agreement (as defined under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the caption Financial Liquidity and Capital Resources Debt Senior Credit Facility). Any indentures for debt securities issued in the future, the terms of any preferred stock issued in the future and any credit agreements entered into in the future may also restrict or prohibit the payment of cash dividends on common stock. 24 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data. For the Years Ended February 28, February 28, February 28, February 29, February 28, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in millions, except per share data) Sales $ 4,096.7 $ 4,213.0 $ 4,723.0 $ 4,885.1 $ 6,401.8 Less excise taxes (764.7 ) (848.2 ) (1,068.4 ) (1,112.1 ) (1,185.4 ) Net sales 3,332.0 3,364.8 3,654.6 3,773.0 5,216.4 Cost of product sold (2,141.9 ) (2,220.0 ) (2,424.6 ) (2,491.5 ) (3,692.5 ) Gross profit 1,190.1 1,144.8 1,230.0 1,281.5 1,523.9 Selling, general and administrative expenses (1) (640.9 ) (682.5 ) (832.0 ) (812.6 ) (787.2 ) Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets (2) (23.6 ) (103.2 ) (300.4 ) (812.2 ) Restructuring charges (3) (23.1 ) (47.6 ) (68.0 ) (6.9 ) (32.5 ) Operating income (loss) 502.5 311.5 29.6 (350.2 ) 704.2 Equity in earnings of equity method investees 243.8 213.6 186.6 257.9 49.9 Interest expense, net (195.3 ) (265.1 ) (323.0 ) (348.3 ) (273.9 ) Loss on write off of financing costs (0.7 ) Gain on change in fair value of derivative instruments 55.1 Income (loss) before income taxes 551.0 259.3 (106.8 ) (440.6 ) 535.3 Benefit from (provision for) income taxes 8.5 (160.0 ) (194.6 ) (172.7 ) (203.4 ) Net income (loss) 559.5 99.3 (301.4 ) (613.3 ) 331.9 Dividends on preferred stock (4.9 ) Income (loss) available to common stockholders $ 559.5 $ 99.3 $ (301.4 ) $ (613.3 ) $ 327.0 Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic Class A Common Stock $ 2.68 $ 0.46 $ (1.40 ) $ (2.83 ) $ 1.44 Basic Class B Convertible Common Stock $ 2.44 $ 0.41 $ (1.27 ) $ (2.57 ) $ 1.31 Diluted Class A Common Stock $ 2.62 $ 0.45 $ (1.40 ) $ (2.83 ) $ 1.38 Diluted Class B Convertible Common Stock $ 2.40 $ 0.41 $ (1.27 ) $ (2.57 ) $ 1.27 Total assets $ 7,167.6 $ 8,094.3 $ 8,036.5 $ 10,052.8 $ 9,438.2 Long term debt, including current maturities $ 3,152.6 $ 3,464.3 $ 4,206.3 $ 4,878.0 $ 4,032.2 (1) During the first quarter of the year ended February 28, 2011, the Company reclassified acquisition related integration costs to selling, general and administrative expenses. Accordingly, all periods presented have been reclassified to reflect this revised presentation. (2) For a detailed discussion of impairment of goodwill and intangible assets for the years ended February 28, 2011, February 28, 2010, and February 28, 2009, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the caption Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets and Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets, respectively. 25 Table of Contents (3) For a detailed discussion of restructuring charges for the years ended February 28, 2011, February 28, 2010, and February 28, 2009, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the captions Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Restructuring Charges and Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Charges, respectively. For the years ended February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview The Company is the worlds leading premium wine company with a broad portfolio of consumer preferred premium wine brands complemented by premium spirits, imported beer and other select beverage alcohol products. The Company continues to supply imported beer in the United States (U.S.) through its investment in a joint venture with Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. This imported beers joint venture operates as Crown Imports LLC and is referred to hereinafter as Crown Imports. The Company is the leading premium wine company in the U.S.; the leading producer and marketer of wine in Canada; and a leading producer and exporter of wine from New Zealand. Prior to January 31, 2011, the Company had leading market positions in both Australia and the United Kingdom (U.K.) through its Australian and U.K. business. On January 31, 2011, the Company completed the sale of 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business (the CWAE Divestiture) as further discussed below under Divestitures in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009. In connection with the Companys changes during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 within its internal management structure for its Australian and U.K. business, and the Companys revised business strategy within these markets, the Company changed its internal management financial reporting on May 1, 2010, to consist of four business divisions: Constellation Wines North America, Constellation Wines Australia and Europe, Constellation Wines New Zealand and Crown Imports. However, due to a number of factors, including the size of the Constellation Wines New Zealand segments operations, the similarity of its economic characteristics and long term financial performance with that of the Constellation Wines North America business, and the fact that the vast majority of the wine produced by the Constellation Wines New Zealand operating segment is sold in the U.S. and Canada, the Company has aggregated the results of this operating segment with its Constellation Wines North America operating segment to form one reportable segment. Accordingly, beginning May 1, 2010, the Company began reporting its operating results in four segments: Constellation Wines North America (wine and spirits) (CWNA), Constellation Wines Australia and Europe (wine) (CWAE), Corporate Operations and Other, and Crown Imports (imported beer). Prior to the changes noted above, the Companys internal management financial reporting consisted of two business divisions, Constellation Wines and Crown Imports. As a result of the CWAE Divestiture, as of February 1, 2011, the Company is no longer reporting operating results for the CWAE segment. Amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment consist of costs of executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global supply chain. Any costs incurred at the corporate office that are applicable to the segments are allocated to the appropriate segment. The amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment are general costs that are applicable to the consolidated group and are therefore not allocated to the other reportable segments. All costs reported within the Corporate Operations and Other segment are not included in the chief operating decision makers evaluation of the operating income performance of the other reportable segments. 26 Table of Contents The new business segments reflect how the Companys operations are managed, how operating performance within the Company is evaluated by senior management and the structure of its internal financial reporting. The financial information for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 (each as defined below) has been restated to conform to the new segment presentation. In addition, the Company excludes restructuring charges and unusual items that affect comparability from its definition of operating income for segment purposes as these items are not reflective of normal continuing operations of the segments. The Company excludes these items as segment operating performance and segment management compensation is evaluated based upon a normalized segment operating income. As such, the performance measures for incentive compensation purposes for segment management do not include the impact of these items. The Companys business strategy in the CWNA segment is to remain focused on consumer preferred premium wine brands, complemented by premium spirits. In this segment, the Company intends to continue to focus on growing premium product categories and expects to capitalize on its size and scale in the marketplace to profitably grow the business. During Fiscal 2010, the Company began implementation of a strategic project to consolidate its U.S. distributor network in key markets and create a new go to market strategy designed to focus the full power of its U.S. wine and spirits portfolio in order to improve alignment of dedicated, selling resources which is expected to drive organic growth. In connection with this strategy, the Company negotiated long term contracts with five U.S. distributors who currently represent about 60% of the Companys branded wine and spirits volume in the U.S. During the second half of fiscal 2010 and throughout Fiscal 2011 (as defined below), the Companys net sales and operating income for its U.S. branded wine and spirits business has benefited from these contracts as the Companys shipments to distributors exceeded distributor shipments to retailers. Following the end of Fiscal 2011, the distributor inventory levels related to the Companys branded wine and spirits products should remain stable as shipments on an annual basis to these distributors will essentially equal the distributors shipments to retailers for the remainder of the terms of these contracts, which extend through the end of fiscal 2015. The Company believes that this is the right strategy to take in order to position the Company for future growth in a consolidating market. In addition, recent U.S. market trends and sales from distributors to retailers of the Companys branded wine and spirits products indicate that the Company has benefited from this new go to market strategy in Fiscal 2011. In addition, in the U.S., the calendar 2010 grape harvest came in lower than the calendar 2009 grape harvest. The Company continues to expect the overall supply of wine to remain generally in balance with demand within the U.S. Prior to the CWAE Divestiture, the Companys business strategy in the CWAE segment previously included tightening of its portfolio focus, increasing efficiencies, reducing costs and improving cash generation in response to the continuing competitive conditions in the U.K. and Australia. This strategy was adopted to assist the Company in its efforts to effectively deal with some of the long term challenges the Company had been facing in the U.K. and Australia markets, including (i) annual duty increases in the U.K.; (ii) significant consolidation of U.K. retailers which resulted in a limited number of retailers controlling a significant portion of the off premise wine business; (iii) continuing surplus of Australian wine which made low cost wine available to U.K. retailers who were able to create and build private label brands in the Australian wine category; and (iv) foreign exchange volatility. For these reasons, combined with the Companys strategic focus on premiumizing its portfolio, generating strong free cash flow and improving return on invested capital, the Company decided to substantially reduce its exposure to the U.K. and Australian markets through the CWAE Divestiture. 27 Table of Contents The Company remains committed to its long term financial model of growing sales, including international expansion of its CWNA segments branded portfolio, expanding margins, increasing cash flow and reducing borrowings to achieve earnings per share growth and improve return on invested capital. Marketing, sales and distribution of the Companys products are managed on a geographic basis in order to fully leverage leading market positions within each core market. Market dynamics and consumer trends vary significantly across the Companys remaining three core markets (U.S., Canada and New Zealand) within the Companys remaining two geographic regions (North America and New Zealand). Within North America, the Company offers a range of beverage alcohol products across the branded wine and spirits and, through Crown Imports, imported beer categories in the U.S. Within New Zealand, the Company primarily offers branded wine. The environment for the Companys products is competitive in each of the Companys core markets. For the year ended February 28, 2011 (Fiscal 2011), the Companys net sales decreased 1% over the year ended February 28, 2010 (Fiscal 2010), primarily due to the divestiture of the U.K. cider business (see Divestitures in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 below) and the CWAE Divestiture, partially offset by a combination of volume growth and favorable product mix shift in the U.S. base branded wine portfolio (as defined below). Operating income for Fiscal 2011 increased 61% over Fiscal 2010 primarily due to a decrease in restructuring charges and unusual items for Fiscal 2011 compared to Fiscal 2010. Net income for Fiscal 2011 increased significantly over Fiscal 2010 primarily due to the items discussed above combined with a benefit from income taxes and lower interest expense. The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting (i) consolidated results of operations of the Company for Fiscal 2011 compared to Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2010 compared to the year ended February 28, 2009 (Fiscal 2009), and (ii) financial liquidity and capital resources for Fiscal 2011. References to U.S. base branded wine exclude the impact of (i) branded wine for the CWNA segment previously sold through the Companys CWAE segment, (ii) branded spirits divested of in the value spirits divestiture (as discussed below) and or (iii) branded wine divested of in the Pacific Northwest Business divestiture (as defined below), as appropriate. References to U.K. base branded wine exclude the impact of U.K. cider divested of in the U.K. cider business divestiture (as discussed below). This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included herein. Divestitures in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 Australian and U.K. Business In January 2011, the Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business (the CWAE Divestiture) at a transaction value of $266.9 million, subject to post closing adjustments. The Company received cash proceeds, net of cash divested of $15.8 million and direct costs paid of $2.3 million, of $221.3 million, subject to post closing adjustments. The Company retained a 19.9% interest in its previously owned Australian and U.K. business. This transaction is consistent with the Companys strategic focus on premiumizing the Companys portfolio and improving margins and return on invested capital. 28 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the net gain recognized and the net cash proceeds received in connection with this divestiture: (in millions) Net assets sold $ (734.1 ) Cash received from buyer, net of cash divested 223.6 Retained interest in previously owned business 48.2 Estimated post closing adjustments (19.3 ) Foreign currency reclassification 678.8 Indemnification liabilities (26.1 ) Direct costs to sell, paid and accrued (14.0 ) Other 8.0 Net gain on sale 165.1 Loss on settlement of pension (109.9 ) Net gain $ 55.2 In addition, the Companys CWAE segment recorded an additional net gain of $28.5 million, primarily associated with a net gain on derivative instruments of $20.8 million, related to this divestiture. Total net gains associated with this divestiture of $83.7 million are included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. U.K. Cider Business In January 2010, the Company sold its U.K. cider business for cash proceeds of 43.9 million ($71.6 million), net of direct costs to sell. This transaction is consistent with the Companys strategic focus on premium higher growth, higher margin wine, beer and spirits brands. In connection with this divestiture, the Companys CWAE segment recorded a gain of $11.2 million for Fiscal 2010 which is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Value Spirits Business In March 2009, the Company sold its value spirits business for $336.4 million, net of direct costs to sell. The Company received $276.4 million, net of direct costs to sell, in cash proceeds and a note receivable for $60.0 million in connection with this divestiture. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company received full payment of the note receivable. The Company retained certain premium spirits brands, including SVEDKA Vodka, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy. This transaction is consistent with the Companys strategic focus on premium, higher growth and higher margin brands in its portfolio. In connection with the classification of this business as an asset group held for sale as of February 28, 2009, the Companys CWNA segment recorded a loss of $15.6 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, primarily related to asset impairments. In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Companys CWNA segment recognized a net gain of $0.2 million, which included a gain on settlement of a postretirement obligation of $1.0 million, partially offset by an additional loss of $0.8 million. These amounts are included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 29 Table of Contents Pacific Northwest Business In June 2008, the Company sold certain businesses consisting of several California wineries and wine brands acquired in the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Beam Wine Estates, Inc. (BWE), as well as certain wineries and wine brands from the states of Washington and Idaho (collectively, the Pacific Northwest Business) for cash proceeds of $204.2 million, net of direct costs to sell. In addition, if certain objectives are achieved by the buyer, the Company could receive up to an additional $25.0 million in cash payments. This transaction contributes to the Companys streamlining of its U.S. wine portfolio by eliminating brand duplication and reducing excess production capacity. In connection with this divestiture, the Companys CWNA segment recorded a loss of $23.2 million for Fiscal 2009, which included a loss on business sold of $15.8 million and losses on contractual obligations of $7.4 million. The loss of $23.2 million is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Equity Method Investment in Fiscal 2011 In connection with the Companys December 2004 investment in Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino), the Company granted separate irrevocable and unconditional options to the two other shareholders of Ruffino to put to the Company all of the ownership interests held by these shareholders for a price as calculated in the joint venture agreement. Each option was exercisable during the period starting from January 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010. For the year ended February 28, 2010, in connection with the notification by the 9.9% shareholder of Ruffino to exercise its option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company for the specified minimum value of 23.5 million, the Company recognized a loss of $34.3 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 on the contractual obligation created by this notification. This loss was included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. In May 2010, the Company settled this put option through a cash payment of 23.5 million ($29.6 million) to the 9.9% shareholder of Ruffino, thereby increasing the Companys equity interest in Ruffino from 40.0% to 49.9%. In December 2010, the Company received notification from the 50.1% shareholder of Ruffino that it was exercising its option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company for 55.9 million. Prior to this notification, the Company had initiated arbitration proceedings against the 50.1% shareholder alleging various matters which should affect the validity of the put option. However, subsequent to the initiation of the arbitration proceedings, the Company began discussions with the 50.1% shareholder on a framework for settlement of all legal actions. The framework of the settlement would include the Companys purchase of the 50.1% shareholders entire equity interest in Ruffino on revised terms to be agreed upon by both parties. As a result, the Company recognized a loss for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 of 43.4 million ($60.0 million) on the contingent obligation. This loss is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of February 28, 2011, the Companys investment in Ruffino was $7.4 million. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales by reportable segment of the Company for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010. Fiscal Fiscal % Increase 2011 2010 (Decrease) (in millions) CWNA net sales $ 2,557.3 $ 2,434.7 5 % CWAE net sales 774.7 930.1 (17 )% Crown Imports net sales 2,392.9 2,256.2 6 % Consolidations and eliminations (2,392.9 ) (2,256.2 ) (6 )% Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,332.0 $ 3,364.8 (1 )% Net sales for Fiscal 2011 decreased to $3,332.0 million from $3,364.8 million for Fiscal 2010, a decrease of $32.8 million, or (1%). This decrease resulted primarily from the divestiture of the U.K. cider business, the CWAE Divestiture and the divestiture of the value spirits business of $178.2 million, partially offset by an increase in U.S. base branded wine net sales of $85.9 million and a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $52.6 million. Constellation Wines North America Net sales for CWNA increased to $2,557.3 million for Fiscal 2011 from $2,434.7 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $122.6 million, or 5%. This increase is primarily due to volume growth and favorable product mix shift in the U.S. base branded wine portfolio due largely to certain U.S. distributor contractual commitments, and a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $36.4 million, partially offset by increased promotional spend, primarily in the U.S. The Fiscal 2011 U.S. volume growth is even more pronounced as a result of the Companys strategic decision in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 to work with certain of its U.S. distributors to reduce their U.S. branded wine inventory levels and not require these distributors to purchase the originally contracted branded wine amounts during that quarter. The Company believes that this strategic decision has helped and will continue to help its U.S. distributors improve depletion trends and consumer takeaway as distributor cost savings associated with carrying lower levels of inventory were invested by the U.S. distributors in additional marketing and promotional programming behind the CWNA segments U.S. branded wine portfolio during Fiscal 2011 and such investments are expected to continue during Fiscal 2012. Constellation Wines Australia and Europe Net sales for CWAE decreased to $774.7 million for Fiscal 2011 from $930.1 million for Fiscal 2010, a decrease of $155.4 million, or (17%). This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in net sales of $171.7 million in connection with the divestiture of the U.K. cider business and the CWAE Divestiture, partially offset by a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $16.2 million. Crown Imports As this segment is eliminated in consolidation, see Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees below for a discussion of Crown Imports net sales, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, and operating income. 31 Table of Contents Gross Profit The Companys gross profit increased to $1,190.1 million for Fiscal 2011 from $1,144.8 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $45.3 million, or 4%. This increase is due to an increase in CWNAs gross profit of $48.3 million and a decrease in unusual items, which consist of certain amounts that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, of $27.7 million, partially offset by a decrease in CWAEs gross profit of $30.7 million. The increase in CWNAs gross profit is primarily due to favorable product mix shift and volume growth (primarily in the U.S. base branded wine portfolio) combined with a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $15.9 million, partially offset by increased U.S. promotional spend and the flow through of higher calendar 2008 U.S. grape costs. The decrease in unusual items is primarily due to decreases in accelerated depreciation of $15.5 million associated with certain restructuring programs and the flow through of inventory step up of $6.0 million associated primarily with the December 2007 BWE acquisition. The decrease in CWAEs gross profit is primarily due to the divestiture of the U.K. cider business and the CWAE Divestiture. Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased to 35.7% for Fiscal 2011 from 34.0% for Fiscal 2010 primarily due to the lower unusual items and growth of higher margin CWNA branded wine and spirits net sales (driven primarily by favorable U.S. base branded wine product mix shift and the divestitures of the lower margin Australian and U.K. business and the U.K. cider business), partially offset by the negative impact of the flow through of the higher calendar 2008 U.S. grape costs and the increased U.S. promotional spend. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to $640.9 million for Fiscal 2011 from $682.5 million for Fiscal 2010, a decrease of $41.6 million, or (6%). This decrease is due to decreases in unusual items, which consist of certain amounts that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, of $85.7 million, and the CWAE segment of $23.1 million, partially offset by increases in the CWNA segment of $55.3 million and the Corporate Operations and Other segment of $11.9 million. The decrease in unusual items consists of the following: Fiscal Fiscal (Decrease) 2011 2010 Increase (in millions) Net gains on the CWAE Divestiture and related activities $ (83.7 ) $ $ (83.7 ) Net gain on sale of nonstrategic assets/business (3.3 ) (11.2 ) 7.9 Loss on contractual obligation from put option of Ruffino shareholder 60.0 34.3 25.7 Acquisition related integration costs 0.5 0.2 0.3 Net gain on March 2009 sale of value spirits business (0.2 ) 0.2 Other costs 6.3 42.4 (36.1 ) $ (20.2 ) $ 65.5 $ (85.7 ) 32 Table of Contents The decrease in other costs above is driven primarily by the Companys plan (announced in April 2009) to simplify its business, increase efficiencies and reduce its cost structure on a global basis (the Global Initiative). The decrease in CWAEs selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to the divestiture of the U.K. cider business and the CWAE Divestiture. The increase in CWNAs selling, general and administrative expenses is due to increases (on a constant currency basis) in general and administrative expenses of $21.4 million, selling expenses of $15.2 million and advertising expenses of $9.6 million, combined with an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $9.1 million. The increases in general and administrative expenses and selling expenses are primarily due to (i) costs associated with the Companys initiative to implement a comprehensive, multi year program to strengthen and enhance the Companys global business capabilities and processes through the creation of an integrated technology platform to improve the accessibility of information and visibility of global data (Project Fusion); (ii) higher compensation and benefits driven largely by higher annual management incentive compensation expense; and (iii) higher consulting service fees associated with the segments review of certain business and process improvement opportunities. The increase in advertising expenses is primarily due to a planned increase in marketing and advertising spend behind the segments branded wine and spirits portfolio. The increase in Corporate Operations and Others selling, general and administrative expenses is due to an increase in general and administrative expenses resulting largely from higher annual management incentive compensation expense and higher stock based compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales decreased to 19.2% for Fiscal 2011 as compared to 20.3% for Fiscal 2010 primarily due to the factors discussed above, partially offset by the increased U.S. promotional spend. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company recorded impairment losses of $23.6 million and $103.2 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. The Fiscal 2011 impairment losses resulted primarily from the Companys fourth quarter annual review, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company determined that certain trademarks associated with the CWNA segments Canadian reporting unit were impaired largely due to lower revenue and profitability associated with products incorporating these assets included in long term financial forecasts developed as part of the strategic planning cycle conducted during the Companys fourth quarter. As a result of this review, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $19.7 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. In addition, in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, in connection with the Companys decision to discontinue certain wine brands within its CWNA segments U.S. wine portfolio, the Company determined that certain indefinite lived trademarks associated with the CWNA segments U.S. reporting unit were impaired. As a result of this decision, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $6.9 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Fiscal 2010 impairment losses resulted from the Companys fourth quarter annual review, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company determined that certain trademarks associated primarily with the CWAE segments Australian reporting unit were impaired largely due to lower revenue and profitability associated with products incorporating these assets included in long term financial forecasts developed as part of the strategic planning cycle conducted during the Companys fourth quarter. As a result of this review, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $103.2 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 33 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges The Company recorded $23.1 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2011 associated primarily with the Companys Global Initiative and the Companys plan (announced in August 2008) to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with the Australian business, primarily by consolidating certain winemaking and packaging operations and reducing the Companys overall grape supply due to reduced capacity needs resulting from a streamlining of the Companys product portfolio (the Australian Initiative). Restructuring charges include $12.1 million of employee termination benefit costs, $5.2 million of contract termination costs, $4.2 million of net noncash charges on assets sold in Australia, and $1.6 million of facility consolidation/relocation costs. The Company recorded $47.6 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2010 associated primarily with the Companys Global Initiative and Australian Initiative. In addition, the Company incurred additional costs for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 in connection with the Companys restructuring and acquisition related integration plans. Total costs incurred in connection with these plans for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 are as follows: Fiscal Fiscal 2011 2010 (in millions) Cost of Product Sold Accelerated depreciation $ 2.2 $ 17.7 Inventory write downs $ $ 1.6 Other $ $ 4.7 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Gain on sale of nonstrategic assets $ (1.0 ) $ Acquisition related integration costs $ 0.5 $ 0.2 Other costs $ 6.3 $ 42.4 Restructuring Charges $ 23.1 $ 47.6 The Company does not expect to incur any material costs in connection with its existing restructuring plans for Fiscal 2012. Operating Income The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) by reportable segment of the Company for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010. Fiscal Fiscal % (Decrease) 2011 2010 Increase (in millions) CWNA $ 631.0 $ 638.0 (1 )% CWAE 9.3 16.9 (45 )% Corporate Operations and Other (106.6 ) (94.7 ) (13 )% Crown Imports 453.0 444.1 2 % Consolidations and eliminations (453.0 ) (444.1 ) (2 )% Total Reportable Segments 533.7 560.2 (5 )% Restructuring Charges and Unusual Items (31.2 ) (248.7 ) NM Consolidated Operating Income $ 502.5 $ 311.5 61 % NM Not Meaningful 34 Table of Contents As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased to $502.5 million for Fiscal 2011 from $311.5 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $191.0 million, or 61%. Restructuring charges and unusual items of $31.2 million and $248.7 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively, consist of certain amounts that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These amounts include: Fiscal Fiscal 2011 2010 (in millions) Cost of Product Sold Flow through of inventory step up $ 2.4 $ 8.4 Accelerated depreciation 2.2 17.7 Inventory write downs 1.6 Other 0.1 4.7 Cost of Product Sold 4.7 32.4 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Net gains on the CWAE Divestiture and related activities (83.7 ) Net gain on sale of nonstrategic assets/business (3.3 ) (11.2 ) Loss on contractual obligation from put option of Ruffino shareholder 60.0 34.3 Acquisition related integration costs 0.5 0.2 Net gain on March 2009 sale of value spirits business (0.2 ) Other costs 6.3 42.4 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (20.2 ) 65.5 Impairment of Intangible Assets 23.6 103.2 Restructuring Charges 23.1 47.6 Restructuring Charges and Unusual Items $ 31.2 $ 248.7 Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees The Companys equity in earnings of equity method investees increased to $243.8 million for Fiscal 2011 from $213.6 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $30.2 million, or 14%. This increase is primarily due to the Companys Fiscal 2010 recognition of an impairment of $25.4 million related to its CWNA segments investment in Ruffino and higher Fiscal 2011 equity in earnings of $4.2 million from the Companys Crown Imports joint venture. The Fiscal 2010 impairment resulted from the Companys third quarter review of its equity method investments for other than temporary impairment. As a result of this review, the Company determined that the CWNA segments investment in Ruffino was impaired primarily due to a decline in revenue and profit forecasts for this international equity method investee combined with an unfavorable foreign exchange movement between the euro and the U.S. Dollar. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $25.4 million in equity in earnings of equity method investees on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net sales for Crown Imports increased to $2,392.9 million for Fiscal 2011 from $2,256.2 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $136.7 million, or 6%. This increase resulted primarily from volume growth within the Crown Imports Mexican beer portfolio. Crown Imports gross profit increased $32.1 million, or 5%, primarily due to the volume growth, partially offset by a contractual price increase in Mexican beer costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $23.2 million, or 11%, primarily due to an increase in general and administrative expenses driven largely by an unfavorable arbitration panel decision in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 related to a matter with one of Crown Imports former distributors, and a planned increase in advertising spend. Operating income increased $8.9 million, or 2%, primarily due to these factors. 35 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $3.5 million and $10.4 million, for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively, decreased to $195.3 million for Fiscal 2011 from $265.1 million for Fiscal 2010, a decrease of $69.8 million, or (26%). The decrease resulted from lower average interest rates for the Company combined with reduced average borrowings for Fiscal 2011. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 is (1.5%) and 61.7%, respectively. The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2011 of (1.5%) was driven largely by a benefit of $207.0 million associated with the deduction for investments and loans related to the CWAE Divestiture and a decrease in uncertain tax positions of $36.0 million in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations and the expiration of statutes of limitation during Fiscal 2011, partially offset by the recognition of valuation allowances against net operating losses in the U.K. and Australia. The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2010 of 61.7% was driven largely by (i) a nondeductible portion of the impairment loss related to certain trademarks of $93.7 million, (ii) the recognition of nondeductible charges of $59.7 million related to the Companys Ruffino investment and (iii) $37.5 million of taxes associated with the sale of the value spirits business, primarily related to the write off of nondeductible goodwill; partially offset by a decrease in uncertain tax positions of $33.0 million in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations during Fiscal 2010. Net Income As a result of the above factors, net income increased to $559.5 million for Fiscal 2011 from $99.3 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $460.2 million. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales by reportable segment of the Company for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009. Fiscal Fiscal % (Decrease) 2010 2009 Increase (in millions) CWNA net sales $ 2,434.7 $ 2,703.4 (10 )% CWAE net sales 930.1 951.2 (2 )% Crown Imports net sales 2,256.2 2,395.4 (6 )% Consolidations and eliminations (2,256.2 ) (2,395.4 ) 6 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,364.8 $ 3,654.6 (8 )% Net sales for Fiscal 2010 decreased to $3,364.8 million from $3,654.6 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $289.8 million, or (8%). This decrease resulted primarily from decreases in spirits net sales and U.S. base branded wine net sales of $195.2 million and $70.7 million, respectively, and an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $66.8 million, partially offset by growth of U.K. branded wine net sales of $35.2 million (on a constant currency basis). 36 Table of Contents Constellation Wines North America Net sales for CWNA decreased to $2,434.7 million for Fiscal 2010 from $2,703.4 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $268.7 million, or (10%). This decrease resulted primarily from decreases in spirits net sales of $195.2 million and U.S. base branded wine net sales of $70.7 million. The decrease in spirits net sales was due to a decrease of $230.0 million in connection with the divestitures of the value spirits business and a Canadian distilling facility, partially offset by growth within the retained spirits business driven largely by volume growth of SVEDKA Vodka. The decrease in the U.S. base branded wine net sales was due primarily to the Companys fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 strategic decision to assist U.S. distributors in reducing their higher than average inventory levels. The higher inventory levels resulted primarily from a planned build in inventory levels during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 in advance of the September 1, 2009, U.S. distributor transition program. These actions had the planned effect of moving a portion of third quarter of fiscal 2010 sales into the second quarter of fiscal 2010. However, during the third quarter of fiscal 2010, distributor depletions were not as strong as expected. As a result, U.S. distributor inventory levels were higher than expected at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010. As such, the Company, in collaboration with certain of its newly contracted U.S. distributors, did not require these distributors to purchase the original contracted amount during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The Company estimated that this decision unfavorably impacted the U.S. branded wine net sales by approximately $60 to $70 million. Constellation Wines Australia and Europe Net sales for CWAE decreased to $930.1 million for Fiscal 2010 from $951.2 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $21.1 million, or (2%). This decrease was driven primarily by an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $61.4 million, partially offset by $35.2 million of U.K. base branded wine growth on a constant currency basis. This increase was due primarily to volume growth of lower priced products. Crown Imports As this segment is eliminated in consolidation, see Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees below for a discussion of Crown Imports net sales, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, and operating income. Gross Profit The Companys gross profit decreased to $1,144.8 million for Fiscal 2010 from $1,230.0 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $85.2 million, or (7%). This decrease was due to a decrease in CWNAs gross profit of $122.0 million and CWAEs gross profit of $58.1 million, partially offset by a decrease in unusual items, which consist of certain amounts that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, of $94.9 million. The decrease in CWNAs gross profit was primarily due to the divestitures of certain lower margin businesses, primarily the value spirits business, of $76.6 million, and a decrease in the U.S. base branded wine portfolio of $35.8 million. The decrease in the U.S. base branded wine gross profit was largely due to the lower net sales to certain U.S. distributors. The decrease in CWAEs gross profit was primarily due to the flow through of higher Australian calendar 2008 harvest costs and an unfavorable mix of sales towards lower margin products. The lower unusual items was primarily due to a decrease in inventory write downs of $92.2 million in Fiscal 2010 compared to Fiscal 2009 due largely to (i) inventory write downs of $53.9 million recorded in Fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys Australian Initiative and (ii) a loss of $37.0 million on the adjustment of certain inventory, primarily Australian, related to prior years. 37 Table of Contents Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased to 34.0% for Fiscal 2010 from 33.7% for Fiscal 2009 primarily due to the lower unusual items, partially offset by the decrease in CWAEs gross profit resulting primarily from the flow through of higher Australian calendar 2008 harvest costs and the unfavorable mix of sales towards lower margin products. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to $682.5 million for Fiscal 2010 from $832.0 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $149.5 million, or (18%). This decrease was due to decreases in the CWNA segment of $115.7 million, the CWAE segment of $27.9 million and unusual items, which consist of certain amounts that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, of $13.8 million, partially offset by an increase in the Corporate Operations and Other segment of $7.9 million. The decrease in CWNAs selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to decreases (on a constant currency basis) in general and administrative expenses of $51.4 million, selling expenses of $37.6 million and advertising expenses of $25.2 million. These decreases are largely attributable to (i) the divestitures of certain lower margin value businesses, primarily the value spirits business; (ii) cost savings in connection with the Companys various restructuring activities; (iii) planned reductions in marketing and advertising spend; and (iv) an overlap of prior year losses on foreign currency transactions. The decrease in CWAEs selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to decreases (on a constant currency basis) in advertising expenses of $12.5 million and selling expenses of $3.6 million, combined with a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $10.4 million. These decreases are due largely to planned reductions in marketing and advertising spend and cost savings in connection with the Companys various restructuring activities. The decrease in unusual items consists of the following: Fiscal Fiscal (Decrease) 2010 2009 Increase (in millions) Loss on contractual obligation from put option of Ruffino shareholder $ 34.3 $ $ 34.3 (Gain) loss on sale of nonstrategic business/assets (11.2 ) 8.1 (19.3 ) Net (gain) loss on March 2009 sale of value spirits business (0.2 ) 15.6 (15.8 ) Acquisition related integration costs 0.2 8.2 (8.0 ) Loss on sale of Pacific Northwest Business 23.2 (23.2 ) Other costs 42.4 24.2 18.2 $ 65.5 $ 79.3 $ (13.8 ) The increase in other costs above is due largely to $34.9 million of other costs recognized in Fiscal 2010 in connection with the Companys Global Initiative plan compared to $16.0 million of other costs recognized in Fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys plan (announced in August 2006) to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the U.K. and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan). The increase in the Corporate Operations and Other segments selling, general and administrative expenses was due to an increase in general and administrative expenses resulting primarily from Project Fusion. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales decreased to 20.3% for Fiscal 2010 as compared to 22.8% for Fiscal 2009 primarily due to cost savings in connection with the Companys various restructuring activities, the planned reductions in marketing and advertising spend and the overlap of prior year losses on foreign currency transactions. 38 Table of Contents Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets During Fiscal 2010, the Company recorded impairment losses of $103.2 million, consisting of impairment of certain trademarks related primarily to its CWAE segments Australian reporting unit. During Fiscal 2009, the Company recorded impairment losses of $300.4 million, consisting of impairments of goodwill and certain trademarks of $252.8 million and $47.6 million, respectively, related primarily to its CWAE segments U.K. reporting unit. Restructuring Charges The Company recorded $47.6 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2010 associated primarily with the Companys Global Initiative and Australian Initiative. Restructuring charges included $25.0 million of employee termination benefit costs, $13.4 million of impairment charges on assets sold or held for sale in Australia, $7.6 million of contract termination costs and $1.6 million of facility consolidation/relocation costs. The Company recorded $68.0 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2009 associated primarily with the Companys Australian Initiative. In addition, the Company incurred additional costs for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys restructuring and acquisition related integration plans. Total costs incurred in connection with these plans for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 are as follows: Fiscal Fiscal 2010 2009 (in millions) Cost of Product Sold Accelerated depreciation $ 17.7 $ 11.2 Inventory write downs $ 1.6 $ 56.8 Other $ 4.7 $ Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Acquisition related integration costs $ 0.2 $ 8.2 Other costs $ 42.4 $ 24.2 Impairment of Intangible Assets $ $ 22.2 Restructuring Charges $ 47.6 $ 68.0 Operating Income The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) by reportable segment of the Company for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009. Fiscal Fiscal % (Decrease) 2010 2009 Increase (in millions) CWNA $ 638.0 $ 644.3 (1 )% CWAE 16.9 47.1 (64 )% Corporate Operations and Other (94.7 ) (86.8 ) (9 )% Crown Imports 444.1 504.1 (12 )% Consolidations and eliminations (444.1 ) (504.1 ) 12 % Total Reportable Segments 560.2 604.6 (7 )% Restructuring Charges and Unusual Items (248.7 ) (575.0 ) NM Consolidated Operating Income $ 311.5 $ 29.6 NM 39 Table of Contents As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased to $311.5 million for Fiscal 2010 from $29.6 million for Fiscal 2009, an increase of $281.9 million. Restructuring charges and unusual items of $248.7 million and $575.0 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively, consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs include: Fiscal Fiscal 2010 2009 (in millions) Cost of Product Sold Accelerated depreciation $ 17.7 $ 11.2 Flow through of inventory step up 8.4 22.2 Inventory write downs 1.6 56.8 Other 4.7 37.1 Cost of Product Sold 32.4 127.3 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Loss on contractual obligation from put option of Ruffino shareholder 34.3 (Gain) loss on sale of nonstrategic business/assets (11.2 ) 8.1 Net (gain) loss on March 2009 sale of value spirits business (0.2 ) 15.6 Acquisition related integration costs 0.2 8.2 Loss on sale of Pacific Northwest Business 23.2 Other costs 42.4 24.2 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 65.5 79.3 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets 103.2 300.4 Restructuring Charges 47.6 68.0 Restructuring Charges and Unusual Items $ 248.7 $ 575.0 Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees The Companys equity in earnings of equity method investees increased to $213.6 million for Fiscal 2010 from $186.6 million for Fiscal 2009, an increase of $27.0 million, or 14%. This increase was primarily due to the recognition of a $25.4 million impairment loss recognized in Fiscal 2010 related to the Companys CWNA segments international equity method investment in Ruffino as compared to $83.3 million of impairment losses recognized in Fiscal 2009 related primarily to Ruffino ($48.6 million) and the Companys CWAE segments international equity method investment in the U.K. wholesale business, Matthew Clark ($30.1 million). The increase in equity in earnings of equity method investees from lower impairment losses in Fiscal 2010 was partially offset by a decrease of $30.4 million in equity in earnings from the Companys Crown Imports joint venture. Net sales for Crown Imports decreased to $2,256.2 million for Fiscal 2010 from $2,395.4 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $139.2 million, or (6%). This decrease resulted primarily from lower volumes within the Crown Imports Mexican beer portfolio. Crown Imports gross profit decreased $59.0 million, or (8%), primarily due to these lower sales volumes and a contractual price increase in Mexican beer costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.0 million, primarily due to an increase in selling expenses as increased advertising spend by Crown Imports in connection with certain Fiscal 2010 national media programs was offset by contributions from the brand owner for this increased advertising spend in Fiscal 2010. Operating income decreased $60.0 million, or (12%), primarily due to these factors. 40 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $10.4 million and $3.8 million, for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively, decreased to $265.1 million for Fiscal 2010 from $323.0 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $57.9 million, or (18%). This decrease was primarily due to lower average borrowings for Fiscal 2010 resulting predominantly from the repayment of a portion of the Companys outstanding borrowings using the proceeds from the sale of the value spirits business and the U.K. cider business. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2010 of 61.7% was driven largely by (i) a nondeductible portion of the impairment loss related to certain trademarks of $93.7 million, (ii) the recognition of nondeductible charges of $59.7 million related to the Companys Ruffino investment; and (iii) $37.5 million of taxes associated with the sale of the value spirits business, primarily related to the write off of nondeductible goodwill; partially offset by a decrease in uncertain tax positions of $33.0 million in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations during Fiscal 2010. The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2009 of (182.2%) was impacted primarily by (i) a nondeductible portion of the impairment losses related to goodwill, equity method investments and certain trademarks of $268.8 million, $83.3 million and $23.6 million, respectively; (ii) the recognition of a valuation allowance of $67.4 million against net operating losses primarily in Australia resulting largely from the Australian Initiative; and (iii) the recognition of income tax expense in connection with the gain on settlement of certain foreign currency economic hedges. Net Income (Loss) As a result of the above factors, net income increased to $99.3 million for Fiscal 2010 from a net loss of $301.4 million for Fiscal 2009, or $400.7 million. Financial Liquidity and Capital Resources General The Companys principal use of cash in its operating activities is for purchasing and carrying inventories and carrying seasonal accounts receivable. The Companys primary source of liquidity has historically been cash flow from operations, except during annual grape harvests when the Company has relied on short term borrowings. In the U.S. and Canada, the annual grape crush normally begins in August and runs through October. In New Zealand, the annual grape crush normally begins in February and runs through May. The Company generally begins taking delivery of grapes at the beginning of the crush season with the majority of payments for such grapes coming due within 90 days. The Companys short term borrowings to support such purchases generally reach their highest levels one to two months after the crush season has ended. Historically, the Company has used cash flow from operating activities to repay its short term borrowings and fund capital expenditures. The Company will continue to use its short term borrowings to support its working capital requirements. 41 Table of Contents The Company has maintained adequate liquidity to meet current working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures and repay scheduled principal and interest payments on debt. Absent deterioration of market conditions, the Company believes that cash flows from operating activities and its financing activities, primarily short term borrowings, will provide adequate resources to satisfy its working capital, scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, and anticipated capital expenditure requirements for both its short term and long term capital needs. As of April 19, 2011, the Company had $595.4 million in revolving loans available to be drawn under its 2006 Credit Agreement (as defined below). The member financial institutions participating in the Companys 2006 Credit Agreement have complied with prior funding requests and the Company believes the member financial institutions will comply with ongoing funding requests. However, there can be no assurances that any particular financial institution will continue to do so in the future. Fiscal 2011 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2011 was $619.3 million, which resulted primarily from net income of $559.5 million, plus $255.7 million of net noncash items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Operations, partially offset by net cash used in the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities of $161.0 million. The net noncash items consisted primarily of depreciation expense, loss on settlement of pension obligations associated with the CWAE Divestiture, deferred tax provision, loss on contractual obligation from put option of Ruffino shareholder and stock based compensation expense, partially offset by the net gain on business sold associated with the CWAE Divestiture. The net cash used in the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities is driven primarily by decreases in other accrued expenses and liabilities of $168.6 million and accounts payable of $82.5 million combined with an increase in accounts receivable, net, of $86.0 million, partially offset by a decrease in inventories of $190.8 million. The decrease in other accrued expenses and liabilities is due largely to the recognition of income tax benefits in connection with the CWAE Divestiture. The decrease in accounts payable is due primarily to lower grape grower payables in Australia as a result of the timing of the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture in advance of the calendar 2011 Australian grape harvest and the timing of payments in the U.K. (through January 31, 2011). The increase in accounts receivable, net is due primarily to the net sales volume growth in the U.S. branded wine portfolio. The decrease in inventories is due largely to decreases in Australian, U.S. and New Zealand inventory levels. The reduction in Australian inventory levels is primarily due to a later calendar 2011 grape harvest combined with the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture. The decrease in the U.S. inventory levels is primarily due to the flow through of higher 2008 U.S. calendar grape costs combined with the net sales volume growth during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 in the U.S. branded wine portfolio. The reduction in New Zealand inventory levels is primarily due to lower tonnage and grape costs associated with the calendar 2011 grape harvest. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for Fiscal 2011 was $188.1 million, which resulted primarily from proceeds from the sale of businesses, net of cash divested, of $219.7 million driven primarily by the proceeds from the CWAE Divestiture, net of direct costs to sell, and proceeds from the note receivable received in connection with the divestiture of the value spirits business of $60.0 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $89.1 million and a payment in connection with the settlement of the irrevocable and unconditional put option of the incremental 9.9% ownership interest associated with the Companys equity method investment, Ruffino, of $29.6 million. 42 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for Fiscal 2011 was $845.7 million resulting primarily from principal payments of long term debt of $328.5 million, purchases of treasury stock through the ASB transaction (as defined below) of $300.0 million and net repayment of notes payable of $289.7 million, partially offset by proceeds from exercise of employee stock options of $61.0 million. Fiscal 2010 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2010 was $402.5 million, which resulted primarily from net income of $99.3 million, plus $312.0 million of net noncash items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Operations and $47.1 million of other, net, less $55.9 million representing the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities. The net noncash items consisted primarily of depreciation expense, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, stock based compensation expense and loss on the contractual obligation from the put option of a Ruffino shareholder. Other, net, consists primarily of cash proceeds from the settlement of certain derivative instruments designated to hedge foreign currency risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated transactions. The net change in operating assets and liabilities resulted primarily from a decrease in other accrued expenses and liabilities of $110.6 million and a decrease of $42.7 million in accounts payable, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable, net, and inventories of $61.9 million and $51.0 million, respectively. The decrease in other accrued expenses and liabilities of $110.6 million is primarily due to higher income tax payments for Fiscal 2010 and lower accrued interest resulting primarily from the timing of interest payments. The decrease in accounts payable of $42.7 million is due largely to lower grape grower payables in Australia associated with the calendar 2010 harvest and the timing of payments in the U.K. business. The decrease in accounts receivable, net, of $61.9 million primarily reflects the impact of the reduced branded wine net sales in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and the liquidation of the accounts receivable balances associated with the January 2010 divestiture of the U.K. cider business. The decrease in inventories of $51.0 million is primarily due to the flow through of the higher calendar 2008 Australian harvest costs in Fiscal 2010, partially offset by an increase in the Companys U.S. branded wine inventory levels resulting largely from the reduced branded wine net sales in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for Fiscal 2010 was $256.6 million, which resulted primarily from the proceeds of $349.6 million from the divestitures of the value spirits business and the U.K. cider business, both net of direct costs to sell, partially offset by $107.7 million of capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for Fiscal 2010 was $623.0 million resulting primarily from principal payments of long term debt of $781.3 million, partially offset by net proceeds from notes payable of $117.1 million and proceeds from maturity of a derivative instrument of $33.2 million. 43 Table of Contents Share Repurchase Programs In April 2010, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300.0 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common Stock. During Fiscal 2011, the Company repurchased 17,223,404 shares of Class A Common Stock pursuant to this authorization at an aggregate cost of $300.0 million, or an average cost of $17.42 per share, through a collared accelerated stock buyback (ASB) transaction that was announced in April 2010. The Company paid the purchase price under the ASB transaction in April 2010, at which time it received an initial installment of 11,016,451 shares of Class A Common Stock. In May 2010, the Company received an additional installment of 2,785,029 shares of Class A Common Stock in connection with the early termination of the hedge period on May 10, 2010. In November 2010, the Company received the final installment of 3,421,924 shares of Class A Common Stock following the end of the calculation period on November 24, 2010. The Company used revolver borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreement to pay the purchase price for the repurchased shares. During Fiscal 2011, the Company has used cash flows from operating activities to repay the revolver borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreement used to pay the purchase price for the repurchased shares. The repurchased shares have become treasury shares. In April 2011, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500.0 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common Stock. The Board of Directors did not specify a date upon which this authorization would expire. Share repurchases under this authorization are expected to be accomplished from time to time based on market conditions, the Companys cash and debt position, and other factors as determined by management. Shares may be repurchased through open market or privately negotiated transactions, and management currently expects that the repurchase under this authorization will be implemented over a multi year period. The Company may fund share repurchases with cash generated from operations or proceeds of borrowings under its senior credit facility. Any repurchased shares will become treasury shares. As of April 28, 2011, no shares have been repurchased pursuant to this authorization. Debt Total debt outstanding as of February 28, 2011, amounted to $3,236.3 million, a decrease of $599.2 million from February 28, 2010. Senior Credit Facility 2006 Credit Agreement The Company and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a lender and administrative agent, and certain other agents, lenders, and financial institutions are parties to a credit agreement, as amended (the 2006 Credit Agreement). The 2006 Credit Agreement provides for aggregate credit facilities of $3,842.0 million, consisting of (i) a $1,200.0 million tranche A term loan facility with an original final maturity in June 2011, fully repaid as of February 28, 2011 (the Tranche A Term Loans), (ii) a $1,800.0 million tranche B term loan facility, of which $1,500.0 million has a final maturity in June 2013 (the 2013 Tranche B Term Loans) and $300.0 million has a final maturity in June 2015 (the 2015 Tranche B Term Loans), and (iii) an $842.0 million revolving credit facility (including a sub facility for letters of credit of up to $200 million), of which $192.0 million terminates in June 2011 (the 2011 Revolving Facility) and $650.0 million terminates in June 2013 (the 2013 Revolving Facility). The Company uses its revolving credit facility under the 2006 Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes. 44 Table of Contents As of February 28, 2011, the required principal repayments of the tranche B term loan facility for each of the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter are as follows: Tranche B Term Loan Facility (in millions) 2012 $ 5.6 2013 466.4 2014 465.1 2015 146.2 2016 144.7 Thereafter $ 1,228.0 The rate of interest on borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreement is a function of LIBOR plus a margin, the federal funds rate plus a margin, or the prime rate plus a margin. The margin is adjustable based upon the Companys debt ratio (as defined in the 2006 Credit Agreement) with respect to the 2011 Revolving Facility and the 2013 Revolving Facility, and is fixed with respect to the 2013 Tranche B Term Loans and the 2015 Tranche B Term Loans. As of February 28, 2011, the LIBOR margin for the 2011 Revolving Facility is 1.25%; the LIBOR margin for the 2013 Revolving Facility is 2.50%; the LIBOR margin for the 2013 Tranche B Term Loans is 1.50%; and the LIBOR margin on the 2015 Tranche B Term Loans is 2.75%. The Companys obligations are guaranteed by certain of its U.S. subsidiaries. These obligations are also secured by a pledge of (i) 100% of the ownership interests in certain of the Companys U.S. subsidiaries and (ii) 65% of the voting capital stock of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to covenants that are contained in the 2006 Credit Agreement, including those restricting the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including guarantees of indebtedness), additional liens, mergers and consolidations, the disposition or acquisition of property, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates and the making of certain investments, in each case subject to numerous conditions, exceptions and thresholds. The financial covenants are limited to maintaining a maximum total debt coverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio. As of February 28, 2011, under the 2006 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding 2013 Tranche B Term Loans of $928.0 million bearing an interest rate of 1.8%, 2015 Tranche B Term Loans of $300.0 million bearing an interest rate of 3.1%, 2011 Revolving Facility of $7.5 million bearing an interest rate of 3.5%, 2013 Revolving Facility of $67.4 million bearing an interest rate of 3.1%, outstanding letters of credit of $13.9 million, and $753.2 million in revolving loans available to be drawn. As of April 19, 2011, following a $300.0 million prepayment of the tranche B term loan facility in March 2011, under the 2006 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding 2013 Tranche B Term Loans of $700.2 million bearing an interest rate of 1.8%, 2015 Tranche B Term Loans of $226.4 million bearing an interest rate 3.0%, 2011 Revolving Facility of $43.3 million bearing an interest rate of 1.5%, 2013 Revolving Facility of $189.4 million bearing an interest rate of 2.6%, outstanding letters of credit of $13.9 million, and $595.4 million in revolving loans available to be drawn. 45 Table of Contents Through February 28, 2010, the Company had outstanding interest rate swap agreements which were designated as cash flow hedges of $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt. The designated cash flow hedges fixed the Companys interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt through February 28, 2010. In addition, the Company had offsetting undesignated interest rate swap agreements with an absolute notional amount of $2,400.0 million outstanding as of February 28, 2010. On March 1, 2010, the Company paid $11.9 million in connection with the maturity of these outstanding interest rate swap agreements, which is reported in other, net in cash flows from operating activities in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In June 2010, the Company entered into a new five year delayed start interest rate swap agreement effective September 1, 2011, which was designated as a cash flow hedge for $500.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt. Accordingly, the Company fixed its interest rates on $500.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 2.9% (exclusive of borrowing margins) through September 1, 2016. For Fiscal 2011, the Company did not reclassify any amount from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) to interest expense, net on its Consolidated Statements of Operations. For Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, the Company reclassified net losses of $27.7 million and $12.6 million, respectively, net of income tax effect, from AOCI to interest expense, net on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Senior Notes In November 1999, the Company issued 75.0 million ($121.7 million upon issuance) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Senior Notes). In March 2000, the Company exchanged 75.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series B Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series B Senior Notes) for all of the Sterling Senior Notes. In October 2000, the Company exchanged 74.0 million aggregate principal amount of Sterling Series C Senior Notes (as defined below) for 74.0 million of the Sterling Series B Senior Notes. On May 15, 2000, the Company issued 80.0 million ($120.0 million upon issuance) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series C Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series C Senior Notes). In November 2009, the Company repaid the Sterling Series B Senior Notes and the Sterling Series C Senior Notes with proceeds from the Companys revolving credit facility under its then existing senior credit facility and cash flows from operating activities. In February 2009, the Company entered into a foreign currency forward contract to fix the U.S. dollar payment of the Sterling Series B Senior Notes and Sterling Series C Senior Notes. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) guidance for derivatives and hedging, this foreign currency forward contract qualified for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. In November 2009, the Company received $33.2 million of proceeds from the maturity of this derivative instrument. This amount is reported in cash flows from financing activities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Fiscal 2010. As of February 28, 2011, the Company had outstanding $695.6 million (net of $4.4 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due September 2016 (the August 2006 Senior Notes). 46 Table of Contents In May 2007, the Company issued $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due May 2017 (the Original May 2007 Senior Notes). The net proceeds of the offering ($693.9 million) were used to reduce a corresponding amount of borrowings under the revolving portion of the Companys then existing senior credit facility. In January 2008, the Company exchanged $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due May 2017 (the May 2007 Senior Notes) for all of the Original May 2007 Senior Notes. The terms of the May 2007 Senior Notes are substantially identical in all material respects to the Original May 2007 Senior Notes, except that the May 2007 Senior Notes are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As of February 28, 2011, the Company had outstanding $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of May 2007 Senior Notes. In December 2007, the Company issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 3/8% Senior Notes due December 2014 at an issuance price of $496.7 million (net of $3.3 million unamortized discount, with an effective interest rate of 8.5%) (the December 2007 Senior Notes). The net proceeds of the offering ($492.2 million) were used to fund a portion of the purchase price of BWE. As of February 28, 2011, the Company had outstanding $498.0 million (net of $2.0 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of December 2007 Senior Notes. The senior notes described above are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the outstanding principal amount plus a make whole payment based on the present value of the future payments at the adjusted Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points. The senior notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment to all existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness of the Company. Certain of the Companys significant U.S. operating subsidiaries guarantee the senior notes, on a senior unsecured basis. Senior Subordinated Notes In January 2002, the Company issued $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due January 2012 (the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes). On February 25, 2010, the Company repaid the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes with proceeds from its revolving credit facility under the 2006 Credit Agreement and cash flows from operating activities. Indentures The Companys indentures under which its outstanding senior notes were issued contain customary covenants, requirements and restrictions, the breach of which could result in an acceleration of the Companys obligation to repay the senior notes. Subsidiary Credit Facilities The Company has additional credit arrangements totaling $154.2 million as of February 28, 2011. These arrangements primarily support the financing needs of the Companys domestic and foreign subsidiary operations. Interest rates and other terms of these borrowings vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions. As of February 28, 2011, amounts outstanding under these arrangements were $39.8 million. 47 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table sets forth information about the Companys long term contractual obligations outstanding at February 28, 2011. The table brings together data for easy reference from the consolidated balance sheet and from individual notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Notes 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of the items noted in the following table. PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD Less than After Total 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years 5 years (in millions) Contractual obligations Notes payable to banks $ 83.7 $ 83.7 $ $ $ Interest payments on notes payable to banks(1) 2.6 2.6 Long term debt (excluding unamortized discount) 3,159.0 15.9 939.8 796.5 1,406.8 Interest payments on long term debt(2) 971.9 175.4 328.7 242.9 224.9 Operating leases 340.2 59.8 76.0 46.1 158.3 Other long term liabilities(3) 141.3 25.5 36.2 10.4 69.2 Unconditional purchase obligations(4) 1,401.5 423.0 616.8 256.5 105.2 Total contractual obligations $ 6,100.2 $ 785.9 $ 1,997.5 $ 1,352.4 $ 1,964.4 (1) Interest payments on notes payable to banks include interest on both revolving loans under the Companys senior credit facility and on foreign subsidiary credit facilities. The weighted average interest rate on the revolving loans under the Companys senior credit facility was 3.2% as of February 28, 2011. Interest rates on foreign subsidiary credit facilities range from 3.0% to 5.9% as of February 28, 2011. (2) Interest rates on long term debt obligations range from 2.1% to 8.4% as of February 28, 2011. Interest payments on long term debt obligations include amounts associated with the Companys outstanding interest rate swap agreements to fix LIBOR interest rates on $500.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt. Interest payments on long term debt do not include interest related to capital lease obligations or certain foreign credit arrangements, which represent approximately 1.0% of the Companys total long term debt, as amounts are not material. (3) Other long term liabilities include $21.5 million associated with expected payments for unrecognized tax benefit liabilities as of February 28, 2011, including $5.3 million in the less than one year period. The payments are reflected in the period in which the Company believes they will ultimately be settled based on the Companys experience in these matters. Other long term liabilities do not include payments for unrecognized tax benefit liabilities of $132.9 million due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. In addition, other long term liabilities do not include expected payments for interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax benefit liabilities as amounts are not material. See Note 12 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of these items. (4) Total unconditional purchase obligations consist of $915.5 million for contracts to purchase grapes over the next fourteen fiscal years, $29.4 million for contracts to purchase bulk wine over the next three fiscal years, $326.5 million for contracts to purchase certain raw materials over the next four fiscal years, and $130.1 million for processing contracts over the next nine fiscal years. See Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of these items. 48 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off balance sheet arrangements that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. Capital Expenditures During Fiscal 2011, the Company incurred $89.1 million for capital expenditures. The Company plans to spend from $85 million to $95 million for capital expenditures in Fiscal 2012. Included within the planned expenditures for Fiscal 2012 are amounts associated with the Companys Project Fusion. Management reviews the capital expenditure program periodically and modifies it as required to meet current business needs. Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices The Companys results of operations and financial condition have not been significantly affected by inflation and changing prices. The Company intends to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices, subject to normal competitive conditions. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will be able to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices. In addition, the Company continues to identify on going cost savings initiatives. Critical Accounting Policies The Companys significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. However, certain of the Companys accounting policies are particularly important to the portrayal of the Companys financial position and results of operations and require the application of significant judgment by the Companys management; as a result, they are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. In applying those policies, the Companys management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. Those estimates are based on the Companys historical experience, the Companys observance of trends in the industry, information provided by the Companys customers and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. On an ongoing basis, the Company reviews its estimates to ensure that they appropriately reflect changes in the Companys business. The Companys critical accounting policies include: Inventory valuation. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being determined on the first in, first out method. The Company assesses the valuation of its inventories and reduces the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of the Companys forecasted usage to their estimated net realizable value. The Company estimates the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements. Reductions to the carrying value of inventories are recorded in cost of product sold. If the future demand for the Companys products is less favorable than the Companys forecasts, then the value of the inventories may be required to be reduced, which could result in material additional expense to the Company and have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. The Company recognized inventory write downs to net realizable value of $1.6 million and $56.8 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively, in connection with certain of the Companys restructuring plans, primarily the Australian Initative. Inventory write downs to net realizable value recognized in the ordinary course of business were not material for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009. Inventories were $1,369.3 million and $1,879.9 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. 49 Table of Contents Goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company accounts for goodwill and other intangible assets by classifying intangible assets into three categories: (i) intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization; (ii) intangible assets with indefinite lives not subject to amortization; and (iii) goodwill. For intangible assets with definite lives, impairment testing is required if conditions exist that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. For intangible assets with indefinite lives and for goodwill, impairment testing is required at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that these assets might be impaired. The Company performs annual impairment tests and re evaluates the useful lives of other intangible assets with indefinite lives at its annual impairment test measurement date of January 1 or when circumstances arise that indicate a possible impairment might exist. The Company uses a two step process to evaluate goodwill for impairment. In the first step, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill. The estimate of fair value of the reporting unit is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows supplemented by the market approach. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, a second step is performed to determine the amount of the goodwill impairment the Company should record. In the second step, an implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting units fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill (including any unrecognized intangible assets). The resulting implied fair value of the goodwill is compared to the carrying value of goodwill. The amount of impairment charge for goodwill is equal to the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. The Companys reporting units include the U.S., Canada and New Zealand. In estimating the fair value of the reporting units, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as future cash flows, future revenues, future earnings and other factors. The assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are consistent with historical trends and the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. These assumptions reflect managements estimates of future economic and competitive conditions and are, therefore, subject to change as a result of changing market conditions. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. The recording of any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. The most significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flows calculation to determine the fair value of the Companys reporting units in connection with impairment testing are: (i) the discount rate, (ii) the expected long term growth rate and (iii) the annual cash flow projections. If the Company used a discount rate that was 50 basis points higher or used an expected long term growth rate that was 50 basis points lower or used annual cash flow projections that were 100 basis points lower in its impairment testing of goodwill, then the changes individually would not have resulted in the carrying value of the respective reporting units net assets, including its goodwill, exceeding its fair value, which would indicate the potential for impairment and the requirement to measure the amount of impairment, if any. 50 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis. No indication of impairment was noted for any of the Companys reporting units, as the fair value of each of the Companys reporting units with goodwill exceeded their carrying value. Based on this analysis, the fair value of the Companys U.S., New Zealand and Canadian reporting units exceeded their carrying value by approximately 20%, 19% and 18%, respectively. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, as a result of its annual goodwill impairment analysis, the Company concluded that there were no indications of impairment for any of the Companys reporting units. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, as a result of its annual goodwill impairment analysis, the Company concluded that the carrying value of goodwill assigned to the CWAE segments U.K. reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value and recorded an impairment loss of $252.7 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Goodwill was $2,619.8 million and $2,570.6 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. The Companys other intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships and trademarks obtained through business acquisitions. Customer relationships are amortized over their estimated useful lives. The useful lives of existing trademarks that were determined to be indefinite are not amortized. These trademarks are evaluated for impairment by comparing the carrying value of the trademarks to their estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of trademarks is calculated based on an income approach using the relief from royalty methodology. The estimated fair value of trademarks is generally determined on the basis of discounted cash flows. The estimate of fair value is then compared to the carrying value of each trademark. If the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value of the trademark, then an impairment charge is recorded by the Company to reduce the carrying value of the trademark to its estimated fair value. In estimating the fair value of the trademarks, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as future cash flows, future revenues, future earnings and other factors. The assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are consistent with historical trends and the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. These assumptions reflect managements estimates of future economic and competitive conditions and are, therefore, subject to change as a result of changing market conditions. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. The recording of any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. The most significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flows calculation to determine the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives in connection with impairment testing are: (i) the discount rate, (ii) the expected long term growth rate and (iii) the annual cash flow projections. If the Company used a discount rate that was 50 basis points higher or used an expected long term growth rate that was 50 basis points lower or used annual cash flow projections that were 100 basis points lower in its impairment testing of intangible assets with indefinite lives, then each change individually would not have resulted in any non impaired unit of accountings carrying value exceeding its fair value. 51 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, the Company performed its annual review of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company determined that certain trademarks associated with the CWNA segments Canadian reporting unit were impaired. As a result of this review, the Company recorded impairment losses of $16.7 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company had previously recorded impairment losses of $6.9 million during its third quarter of fiscal 2011 in connection with the Companys decision to discontinue certain wine brands within its CWNA segments U.S. wine portfolio. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, as a result of its annual review of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment, the Company determined that certain trademarks associated primarily with the CWAE segments Australian reporting unit were impaired. As a result of this review, the Company recorded impairment losses of $103.2 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, as a result of its annual review of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment, the Company determined that certain trademarks associated primarily with the CWAE segments U.K. reporting unit were impaired. As a result of this review, the Company recorded impairment losses of $25.9 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company had previously recorded impairment losses of $21.8 million during its second quarter of fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys Australian Initiative. Intangible assets with indefinite lives were $822.2 million and $855.7 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. Accounting for promotional activities. Sales reflect reductions attributable to consideration given to customers in various customer incentive programs, including pricing discounts on single transactions, volume discounts, promotional and advertising allowances, coupons, and rebates. Certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the cost of those programs. The accrued liability for these programs is determined through analysis of programs offered, historical trends, expectations regarding customer and consumer participation, sales and payment trends, and experience with payment patterns associated with similar programs that have been offered previously. If assumptions included in the Companys estimates were to change or market conditions were to change, then material incremental reductions to revenue could be required, which could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. Promotional costs were $699.0 million, $749.8 million and $712.1 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Accrued promotion costs were $52.3 million and $111.4 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. 52 Table of Contents Accounting for stock based compensation. The Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions using the modified prospective transition method on March 1, 2006 in accordance with the FASB guidance for compensation stock compensation. Under the fair value recognition provisions of this guidance, stock based compensation cost is calculated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense, net of estimated pre vesting forfeitures, ratably over the vesting period of the award. In addition, this guidance requires additional accounting related to the income tax effects and disclosure regarding the cash flow effects resulting from stock based payment arrangements. The Company selected the Black Scholes option pricing model as the most appropriate fair value method for its awards granted after March 1, 2006. The calculation of fair value of stock based awards requires the input of assumptions, including the expected term of the stock based awards and the associated stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock based awards represent the Companys best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, then stock based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. If the Company used an expected term for its stock based awards that was one year longer, the fair value of stock based awards granted during Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, Fiscal 2009 and for the years ended February 29, 2008 (Fiscal 2008), and February 28, 2007 (Fiscal 2007), would have increased by $27.1 million, resulting in an increase of $5.5 million of stock based compensation expense for Fiscal 2011. If the Company used an expected term of the stock based awards that was one year shorter, the fair value of the stock based awards granted during Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 would have decreased by $27.4 million, resulting in a decrease of $5.3 million of stock based compensation expense for Fiscal 2011. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized for Fiscal 2011 was $47.0 million, of which $43.1 million was expensed for Fiscal 2011 and $3.9 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 28, 2011. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized for Fiscal 2010 was $56.8 million, of which $51.7 million was expensed for Fiscal 2010 and $5.1 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 28, 2010. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized for Fiscal 2009 was $47.5 million, of which $42.9 million was expensed for Fiscal 2009 and $4.6 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 28, 2009. 53 Table of Contents Accounting for income taxes. The Company estimates its income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits based upon various factors including, but not limited to, historical pretax operating income, future estimates of pretax operating income, differences between book and tax treatment of items of income and expense and tax planning strategies. The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S., Canada, New Zealand and other jurisdictions. The Company recognizes its deferred tax assets and liabilities based upon the expected future tax outcome of amounts recognized in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. If necessary, the Company records a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets if the realization of the asset appears doubtful. The Company believes that all tax positions are fully supported, however the Company records tax liabilities in accordance with the FASBs guidance for income tax accounting when certain positions are likely to be challenged and may not succeed. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from the Companys current estimate of the tax liabilities. In addition, changes in existing tax laws or rates could significantly change the Companys current estimate of its tax liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which they are determined. Changes in current estimates, if significant, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. The annual effective tax rate was (1.5%), 61.7% and (182.2%) for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Accounting for business combinations. The acquisition of businesses is an important element of the Companys strategy. Under the acquisition method, the Company is required to record the net assets acquired at the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The determination of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Companys financial statements. For example, the Companys acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets; the value and estimated life of those assets may affect the amount of future period amortization expense for intangible assets with finite lives as well as possible impairment charges that may be incurred. Amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets was $5.5 million, $5.8 million and $6.8 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Amortizable intangible assets were $64.1 million and $69.3 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. 54 Table of Contents Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted Fair value measurements and disclosures In January 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures. This guidance requires an entity to (i) disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and the reasons for the transfers, and (ii) present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). This guidance also clarifies existing disclosures requiring an entity to provide fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities and, for Level 2 or Level 3 fair value measurements, disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. Effective March 1, 2010, the Company adopted the additional disclosure requirements and clarifications of existing disclosures of this guidance, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). The Company is required to adopt those disclosures for its annual and interim periods beginning March 1, 2011. The adoption of the applicable provisions of this guidance on March 1, 2010, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The adoption of the remaining provision of this guidance on March 1, 2011, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Intangibles goodwill and other In December 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance for when to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. The amended guidance modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. Any resulting goodwill impairment upon adoption should be recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the period of adoption. The Company is required to adopt the guidance for its annual and interim periods beginning March 1, 2011. The adoption of this amended guidance on March 1, 2011, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company, as a result of its global operating, acquisition and financing activities, is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To manage the volatility relating to these risks, the Company periodically purchases and or sells derivative instruments including foreign currency forward and option contracts and interest rate swap agreements. The Company uses derivative instruments solely to reduce the financial impact of these risks and does not use derivative instruments for trading purposes. Foreign currency derivative instruments are or may be used to hedge existing foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, forecasted foreign currency denominated sales/purchases to/from third parties as well as intercompany sales/purchases, intercompany principal and interest payments, and in connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the U.S. As of February 28, 2011, the Company had exposures to foreign currency risk primarily related to the euro, New Zealand dollar and Canadian dollar. 55 Table of Contents As of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, the Company had outstanding foreign currency derivative instruments with a notional value of $326.4 million and $1,020.1 million, respectively. Approximately 47% of the Companys total exposures were hedged as of February 28, 2011, including most of the Companys balance sheet exposures and certain of the Companys forecasted transactional exposures. The estimated fair value of the Companys foreign currency derivative instruments was a net asset of $11.7 million and $14.6 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. Using a sensitivity analysis based on estimated fair value of open contracts using forward rates, if the contract base currency had been 10% weaker as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, the fair value of open foreign currency contracts would have been decreased by $0.4 million and $13.2 million, respectively. Losses or gains from the revaluation or settlement of the related underlying positions would substantially offset such gains or losses on the derivative instruments. The fair value of fixed rate debt is subject to interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk. The estimated fair value of the Companys total fixed rate debt, including current maturities, was $2,104.0 million and $1,974.3 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of fixed interest rate long term debt by $90.3 million and $97.3 million, respectively. As of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, the Company had outstanding cash flow designated interest rate swap agreements to minimize interest rate volatility. As of February 28, 2011, the swap agreements fix LIBOR interest rates on $500.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 2.9% (exclusive of borrowing margins) through September 1, 2016. As of February 28, 2010, the swap agreements fixed LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% through February 28, 2010. In addition, as of February 28, 2010, the Company had offsetting outstanding undesignated interest rate swap agreements with an absolute notional value of $2,400.0 million. The Companys interest rate swap agreements that were outstanding as of February 28, 2010, matured on March 1, 2010. The estimated fair value of the Companys interest rate swap agreements was a net liability of $4.4 million and $12.0 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2011, would have favorably increased the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements by $25.1 million. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2010, would not have resulted in a significant change in the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements. In addition to the $2,104.0 million and $1,974.3 million estimated fair value of fixed rate debt outstanding as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively, the Company also had variable rate debt outstanding (primarily LIBOR based), certain of which includes a fixed margin. As of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, the estimated fair value of the Companys total variable rate debt, including current maturities was $1,278.0 million and $1,879.2 million, respectively. Using a sensitivity analysis based on a hypothetical 1% increase in prevailing interest rates over a 12 month period, the approximate increase in cash required for interest as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, is $29.0 million and $19.2 million, respectively. 56 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview The Company is the worlds leading premium wine company with a broad portfolio of consumer preferred premium wine brands complemented by premium spirits, imported beer and other select beverage alcohol products. The Company continues to supply imported beer in the United States (U.S.) through its investment in a joint venture with Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. This imported beers joint venture operates as Crown Imports LLC and is referred to hereinafter as Crown Imports. The Company is the leading premium wine company in the U.S.; the leading producer and marketer of wine in Canada; and a leading producer and exporter of wine from New Zealand. Prior to January 31, 2011, the Company had leading market positions in both Australia and the United Kingdom (U.K.) through its Australian and U.K. business. On January 31, 2011, the Company completed the sale of 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business (the CWAE Divestiture) as further discussed below under Divestitures in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009. In connection with the Companys changes during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 within its internal management structure for its Australian and U.K. business, and the Companys revised business strategy within these markets, the Company changed its internal management financial reporting on May 1, 2010, to consist of four business divisions: Constellation Wines North America, Constellation Wines Australia and Europe, Constellation Wines New Zealand and Crown Imports. However, due to a number of factors, including the size of the Constellation Wines New Zealand segments operations, the similarity of its economic characteristics and long term financial performance with that of the Constellation Wines North America business, and the fact that the vast majority of the wine produced by the Constellation Wines New Zealand operating segment is sold in the U.S. and Canada, the Company has aggregated the results of this operating segment with its Constellation Wines North America operating segment to form one reportable segment. Accordingly, beginning May 1, 2010, the Company began reporting its operating results in four segments: Constellation Wines North America (wine and spirits) (CWNA), Constellation Wines Australia and Europe (wine) (CWAE), Corporate Operations and Other, and Crown Imports (imported beer). Prior to the changes noted above, the Companys internal management financial reporting consisted of two business divisions, Constellation Wines and Crown Imports. As a result of the CWAE Divestiture, as of February 1, 2011, the Company is no longer reporting operating results for the CWAE segment. Amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment consist of costs of executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information technology and global supply chain. Any costs incurred at the corporate office that are applicable to the segments are allocated to the appropriate segment. The amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment are general costs that are applicable to the consolidated group and are therefore not allocated to the other reportable segments. All costs reported within the Corporate Operations and Other segment are not included in the chief operating decision makers evaluation of the operating income performance of the other reportable segments. 26 Table of Contents The new business segments reflect how the Companys operations are managed, how operating performance within the Company is evaluated by senior management and the structure of its internal financial reporting. The financial information for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 (each as defined below) has been restated to conform to the new segment presentation. In addition, the Company excludes restructuring charges and unusual items that affect comparability from its definition of operating income for segment purposes as these items are not reflective of normal continuing operations of the segments. The Company excludes these items as segment operating performance and segment management compensation is evaluated based upon a normalized segment operating income. As such, the performance measures for incentive compensation purposes for segment management do not include the impact of these items. The Companys business strategy in the CWNA segment is to remain focused on consumer preferred premium wine brands, complemented by premium spirits. In this segment, the Company intends to continue to focus on growing premium product categories and expects to capitalize on its size and scale in the marketplace to profitably grow the business. During Fiscal 2010, the Company began implementation of a strategic project to consolidate its U.S. distributor network in key markets and create a new go to market strategy designed to focus the full power of its U.S. wine and spirits portfolio in order to improve alignment of dedicated, selling resources which is expected to drive organic growth. In connection with this strategy, the Company negotiated long term contracts with five U.S. distributors who currently represent about 60% of the Companys branded wine and spirits volume in the U.S. During the second half of fiscal 2010 and throughout Fiscal 2011 (as defined below), the Companys net sales and operating income for its U.S. branded wine and spirits business has benefited from these contracts as the Companys shipments to distributors exceeded distributor shipments to retailers. Following the end of Fiscal 2011, the distributor inventory levels related to the Companys branded wine and spirits products should remain stable as shipments on an annual basis to these distributors will essentially equal the distributors shipments to retailers for the remainder of the terms of these contracts, which extend through the end of fiscal 2015. The Company believes that this is the right strategy to take in order to position the Company for future growth in a consolidating market. In addition, recent U.S. market trends and sales from distributors to retailers of the Companys branded wine and spirits products indicate that the Company has benefited from this new go to market strategy in Fiscal 2011. In addition, in the U.S., the calendar 2010 grape harvest came in lower than the calendar 2009 grape harvest. The Company continues to expect the overall supply of wine to remain generally in balance with demand within the U.S. Prior to the CWAE Divestiture, the Companys business strategy in the CWAE segment previously included tightening of its portfolio focus, increasing efficiencies, reducing costs and improving cash generation in response to the continuing competitive conditions in the U.K. and Australia. This strategy was adopted to assist the Company in its efforts to effectively deal with some of the long term challenges the Company had been facing in the U.K. and Australia markets, including (i) annual duty increases in the U.K.; (ii) significant consolidation of U.K. retailers which resulted in a limited number of retailers controlling a significant portion of the off premise wine business; (iii) continuing surplus of Australian wine which made low cost wine available to U.K. retailers who were able to create and build private label brands in the Australian wine category; and (iv) foreign exchange volatility. For these reasons, combined with the Companys strategic focus on premiumizing its portfolio, generating strong free cash flow and improving return on invested capital, the Company decided to substantially reduce its exposure to the U.K. and Australian markets through the CWAE Divestiture. 27 Table of Contents The Company remains committed to its long term financial model of growing sales, including international expansion of its CWNA segments branded portfolio, expanding margins, increasing cash flow and reducing borrowings to achieve earnings per share growth and improve return on invested capital. Marketing, sales and distribution of the Companys products are managed on a geographic basis in order to fully leverage leading market positions within each core market. Market dynamics and consumer trends vary significantly across the Companys remaining three core markets (U.S., Canada and New Zealand) within the Companys remaining two geographic regions (North America and New Zealand). Within North America, the Company offers a range of beverage alcohol products across the branded wine and spirits and, through Crown Imports, imported beer categories in the U.S. Within New Zealand, the Company primarily offers branded wine. The environment for the Companys products is competitive in each of the Companys core markets. For the year ended February 28, 2011 (Fiscal 2011), the Companys net sales decreased 1% over the year ended February 28, 2010 (Fiscal 2010), primarily due to the divestiture of the U.K. cider business (see Divestitures in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 below) and the CWAE Divestiture, partially offset by a combination of volume growth and favorable product mix shift in the U.S. base branded wine portfolio (as defined below). Operating income for Fiscal 2011 increased 61% over Fiscal 2010 primarily due to a decrease in restructuring charges and unusual items for Fiscal 2011 compared to Fiscal 2010. Net income for Fiscal 2011 increased significantly over Fiscal 2010 primarily due to the items discussed above combined with a benefit from income taxes and lower interest expense. The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting (i) consolidated results of operations of the Company for Fiscal 2011 compared to Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2010 compared to the year ended February 28, 2009 (Fiscal 2009), and (ii) financial liquidity and capital resources for Fiscal 2011. References to U.S. base branded wine exclude the impact of (i) branded wine for the CWNA segment previously sold through the Companys CWAE segment, (ii) branded spirits divested of in the value spirits divestiture (as discussed below) and or (iii) branded wine divested of in the Pacific Northwest Business divestiture (as defined below), as appropriate. References to U.K. base branded wine exclude the impact of U.K. cider divested of in the U.K. cider business divestiture (as discussed below). This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included herein. Divestitures in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 Australian and U.K. Business In January 2011, the Company sold 80.1% of its Australian and U.K. business (the CWAE Divestiture) at a transaction value of $266.9 million, subject to post closing adjustments. The Company received cash proceeds, net of cash divested of $15.8 million and direct costs paid of $2.3 million, of $221.3 million, subject to post closing adjustments. The Company retained a 19.9% interest in its previously owned Australian and U.K. business. This transaction is consistent with the Companys strategic focus on premiumizing the Companys portfolio and improving margins and return on invested capital. 28 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the net gain recognized and the net cash proceeds received in connection with this divestiture: (in millions) Net assets sold $ (734.1 ) Cash received from buyer, net of cash divested 223.6 Retained interest in previously owned business 48.2 Estimated post closing adjustments (19.3 ) Foreign currency reclassification 678.8 Indemnification liabilities (26.1 ) Direct costs to sell, paid and accrued (14.0 ) Other 8.0 Net gain on sale 165.1 Loss on settlement of pension (109.9 ) Net gain $ 55.2 In addition, the Companys CWAE segment recorded an additional net gain of $28.5 million, primarily associated with a net gain on derivative instruments of $20.8 million, related to this divestiture. Total net gains associated with this divestiture of $83.7 million are included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. U.K. Cider Business In January 2010, the Company sold its U.K. cider business for cash proceeds of 43.9 million ($71.6 million), net of direct costs to sell. This transaction is consistent with the Companys strategic focus on premium higher growth, higher margin wine, beer and spirits brands. In connection with this divestiture, the Companys CWAE segment recorded a gain of $11.2 million for Fiscal 2010 which is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Value Spirits Business In March 2009, the Company sold its value spirits business for $336.4 million, net of direct costs to sell. The Company received $276.4 million, net of direct costs to sell, in cash proceeds and a note receivable for $60.0 million in connection with this divestiture. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company received full payment of the note receivable. The Company retained certain premium spirits brands, including SVEDKA Vodka, Black Velvet Canadian Whisky and Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy. This transaction is consistent with the Companys strategic focus on premium, higher growth and higher margin brands in its portfolio. In connection with the classification of this business as an asset group held for sale as of February 28, 2009, the Companys CWNA segment recorded a loss of $15.6 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, primarily related to asset impairments. In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Companys CWNA segment recognized a net gain of $0.2 million, which included a gain on settlement of a postretirement obligation of $1.0 million, partially offset by an additional loss of $0.8 million. These amounts are included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 29 Table of Contents Pacific Northwest Business In June 2008, the Company sold certain businesses consisting of several California wineries and wine brands acquired in the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Beam Wine Estates, Inc. (BWE), as well as certain wineries and wine brands from the states of Washington and Idaho (collectively, the Pacific Northwest Business) for cash proceeds of $204.2 million, net of direct costs to sell. In addition, if certain objectives are achieved by the buyer, the Company could receive up to an additional $25.0 million in cash payments. This transaction contributes to the Companys streamlining of its U.S. wine portfolio by eliminating brand duplication and reducing excess production capacity. In connection with this divestiture, the Companys CWNA segment recorded a loss of $23.2 million for Fiscal 2009, which included a loss on business sold of $15.8 million and losses on contractual obligations of $7.4 million. The loss of $23.2 million is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Equity Method Investment in Fiscal 2011 In connection with the Companys December 2004 investment in Ruffino S.r.l. (Ruffino), the Company granted separate irrevocable and unconditional options to the two other shareholders of Ruffino to put to the Company all of the ownership interests held by these shareholders for a price as calculated in the joint venture agreement. Each option was exercisable during the period starting from January 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010. For the year ended February 28, 2010, in connection with the notification by the 9.9% shareholder of Ruffino to exercise its option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company for the specified minimum value of 23.5 million, the Company recognized a loss of $34.3 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 on the contractual obligation created by this notification. This loss was included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. In May 2010, the Company settled this put option through a cash payment of 23.5 million ($29.6 million) to the 9.9% shareholder of Ruffino, thereby increasing the Companys equity interest in Ruffino from 40.0% to 49.9%. In December 2010, the Company received notification from the 50.1% shareholder of Ruffino that it was exercising its option to put its entire equity interest in Ruffino to the Company for 55.9 million. Prior to this notification, the Company had initiated arbitration proceedings against the 50.1% shareholder alleging various matters which should affect the validity of the put option. However, subsequent to the initiation of the arbitration proceedings, the Company began discussions with the 50.1% shareholder on a framework for settlement of all legal actions. The framework of the settlement would include the Companys purchase of the 50.1% shareholders entire equity interest in Ruffino on revised terms to be agreed upon by both parties. As a result, the Company recognized a loss for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 of 43.4 million ($60.0 million) on the contingent obligation. This loss is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of February 28, 2011, the Companys investment in Ruffino was $7.4 million. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales by reportable segment of the Company for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010. Fiscal Fiscal % Increase 2011 2010 (Decrease) (in millions) CWNA net sales $ 2,557.3 $ 2,434.7 5 % CWAE net sales 774.7 930.1 (17 )% Crown Imports net sales 2,392.9 2,256.2 6 % Consolidations and eliminations (2,392.9 ) (2,256.2 ) (6 )% Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,332.0 $ 3,364.8 (1 )% Net sales for Fiscal 2011 decreased to $3,332.0 million from $3,364.8 million for Fiscal 2010, a decrease of $32.8 million, or (1%). This decrease resulted primarily from the divestiture of the U.K. cider business, the CWAE Divestiture and the divestiture of the value spirits business of $178.2 million, partially offset by an increase in U.S. base branded wine net sales of $85.9 million and a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $52.6 million. Constellation Wines North America Net sales for CWNA increased to $2,557.3 million for Fiscal 2011 from $2,434.7 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $122.6 million, or 5%. This increase is primarily due to volume growth and favorable product mix shift in the U.S. base branded wine portfolio due largely to certain U.S. distributor contractual commitments, and a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $36.4 million, partially offset by increased promotional spend, primarily in the U.S. The Fiscal 2011 U.S. volume growth is even more pronounced as a result of the Companys strategic decision in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 to work with certain of its U.S. distributors to reduce their U.S. branded wine inventory levels and not require these distributors to purchase the originally contracted branded wine amounts during that quarter. The Company believes that this strategic decision has helped and will continue to help its U.S. distributors improve depletion trends and consumer takeaway as distributor cost savings associated with carrying lower levels of inventory were invested by the U.S. distributors in additional marketing and promotional programming behind the CWNA segments U.S. branded wine portfolio during Fiscal 2011 and such investments are expected to continue during Fiscal 2012. Constellation Wines Australia and Europe Net sales for CWAE decreased to $774.7 million for Fiscal 2011 from $930.1 million for Fiscal 2010, a decrease of $155.4 million, or (17%). This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in net sales of $171.7 million in connection with the divestiture of the U.K. cider business and the CWAE Divestiture, partially offset by a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $16.2 million. Crown Imports As this segment is eliminated in consolidation, see Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees below for a discussion of Crown Imports net sales, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, and operating income. 31 Table of Contents Gross Profit The Companys gross profit increased to $1,190.1 million for Fiscal 2011 from $1,144.8 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $45.3 million, or 4%. This increase is due to an increase in CWNAs gross profit of $48.3 million and a decrease in unusual items, which consist of certain amounts that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, of $27.7 million, partially offset by a decrease in CWAEs gross profit of $30.7 million. The increase in CWNAs gross profit is primarily due to favorable product mix shift and volume growth (primarily in the U.S. base branded wine portfolio) combined with a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $15.9 million, partially offset by increased U.S. promotional spend and the flow through of higher calendar 2008 U.S. grape costs. The decrease in unusual items is primarily due to decreases in accelerated depreciation of $15.5 million associated with certain restructuring programs and the flow through of inventory step up of $6.0 million associated primarily with the December 2007 BWE acquisition. The decrease in CWAEs gross profit is primarily due to the divestiture of the U.K. cider business and the CWAE Divestiture. Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased to 35.7% for Fiscal 2011 from 34.0% for Fiscal 2010 primarily due to the lower unusual items and growth of higher margin CWNA branded wine and spirits net sales (driven primarily by favorable U.S. base branded wine product mix shift and the divestitures of the lower margin Australian and U.K. business and the U.K. cider business), partially offset by the negative impact of the flow through of the higher calendar 2008 U.S. grape costs and the increased U.S. promotional spend. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to $640.9 million for Fiscal 2011 from $682.5 million for Fiscal 2010, a decrease of $41.6 million, or (6%). This decrease is due to decreases in unusual items, which consist of certain amounts that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, of $85.7 million, and the CWAE segment of $23.1 million, partially offset by increases in the CWNA segment of $55.3 million and the Corporate Operations and Other segment of $11.9 million. The decrease in unusual items consists of the following: Fiscal Fiscal (Decrease) 2011 2010 Increase (in millions) Net gains on the CWAE Divestiture and related activities $ (83.7 ) $ $ (83.7 ) Net gain on sale of nonstrategic assets/business (3.3 ) (11.2 ) 7.9 Loss on contractual obligation from put option of Ruffino shareholder 60.0 34.3 25.7 Acquisition related integration costs 0.5 0.2 0.3 Net gain on March 2009 sale of value spirits business (0.2 ) 0.2 Other costs 6.3 42.4 (36.1 ) $ (20.2 ) $ 65.5 $ (85.7 ) 32 Table of Contents The decrease in other costs above is driven primarily by the Companys plan (announced in April 2009) to simplify its business, increase efficiencies and reduce its cost structure on a global basis (the Global Initiative). The decrease in CWAEs selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to the divestiture of the U.K. cider business and the CWAE Divestiture. The increase in CWNAs selling, general and administrative expenses is due to increases (on a constant currency basis) in general and administrative expenses of $21.4 million, selling expenses of $15.2 million and advertising expenses of $9.6 million, combined with an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $9.1 million. The increases in general and administrative expenses and selling expenses are primarily due to (i) costs associated with the Companys initiative to implement a comprehensive, multi year program to strengthen and enhance the Companys global business capabilities and processes through the creation of an integrated technology platform to improve the accessibility of information and visibility of global data (Project Fusion); (ii) higher compensation and benefits driven largely by higher annual management incentive compensation expense; and (iii) higher consulting service fees associated with the segments review of certain business and process improvement opportunities. The increase in advertising expenses is primarily due to a planned increase in marketing and advertising spend behind the segments branded wine and spirits portfolio. The increase in Corporate Operations and Others selling, general and administrative expenses is due to an increase in general and administrative expenses resulting largely from higher annual management incentive compensation expense and higher stock based compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales decreased to 19.2% for Fiscal 2011 as compared to 20.3% for Fiscal 2010 primarily due to the factors discussed above, partially offset by the increased U.S. promotional spend. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company recorded impairment losses of $23.6 million and $103.2 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. The Fiscal 2011 impairment losses resulted primarily from the Companys fourth quarter annual review, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company determined that certain trademarks associated with the CWNA segments Canadian reporting unit were impaired largely due to lower revenue and profitability associated with products incorporating these assets included in long term financial forecasts developed as part of the strategic planning cycle conducted during the Companys fourth quarter. As a result of this review, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $19.7 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. In addition, in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, in connection with the Companys decision to discontinue certain wine brands within its CWNA segments U.S. wine portfolio, the Company determined that certain indefinite lived trademarks associated with the CWNA segments U.S. reporting unit were impaired. As a result of this decision, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $6.9 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Fiscal 2010 impairment losses resulted from the Companys fourth quarter annual review, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company determined that certain trademarks associated primarily with the CWAE segments Australian reporting unit were impaired largely due to lower revenue and profitability associated with products incorporating these assets included in long term financial forecasts developed as part of the strategic planning cycle conducted during the Companys fourth quarter. As a result of this review, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $103.2 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. 33 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges The Company recorded $23.1 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2011 associated primarily with the Companys Global Initiative and the Companys plan (announced in August 2008) to sell certain assets and implement operational changes designed to improve the efficiencies and returns associated with the Australian business, primarily by consolidating certain winemaking and packaging operations and reducing the Companys overall grape supply due to reduced capacity needs resulting from a streamlining of the Companys product portfolio (the Australian Initiative). Restructuring charges include $12.1 million of employee termination benefit costs, $5.2 million of contract termination costs, $4.2 million of net noncash charges on assets sold in Australia, and $1.6 million of facility consolidation/relocation costs. The Company recorded $47.6 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2010 associated primarily with the Companys Global Initiative and Australian Initiative. In addition, the Company incurred additional costs for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 in connection with the Companys restructuring and acquisition related integration plans. Total costs incurred in connection with these plans for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 are as follows: Fiscal Fiscal 2011 2010 (in millions) Cost of Product Sold Accelerated depreciation $ 2.2 $ 17.7 Inventory write downs $ $ 1.6 Other $ $ 4.7 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Gain on sale of nonstrategic assets $ (1.0 ) $ Acquisition related integration costs $ 0.5 $ 0.2 Other costs $ 6.3 $ 42.4 Restructuring Charges $ 23.1 $ 47.6 The Company does not expect to incur any material costs in connection with its existing restructuring plans for Fiscal 2012. Operating Income The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) by reportable segment of the Company for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010. Fiscal Fiscal % (Decrease) 2011 2010 Increase (in millions) CWNA $ 631.0 $ 638.0 (1 )% CWAE 9.3 16.9 (45 )% Corporate Operations and Other (106.6 ) (94.7 ) (13 )% Crown Imports 453.0 444.1 2 % Consolidations and eliminations (453.0 ) (444.1 ) (2 )% Total Reportable Segments 533.7 560.2 (5 )% Restructuring Charges and Unusual Items (31.2 ) (248.7 ) NM Consolidated Operating Income $ 502.5 $ 311.5 61 % NM Not Meaningful 34 Table of Contents As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased to $502.5 million for Fiscal 2011 from $311.5 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $191.0 million, or 61%. Restructuring charges and unusual items of $31.2 million and $248.7 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively, consist of certain amounts that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These amounts include: Fiscal Fiscal 2011 2010 (in millions) Cost of Product Sold Flow through of inventory step up $ 2.4 $ 8.4 Accelerated depreciation 2.2 17.7 Inventory write downs 1.6 Other 0.1 4.7 Cost of Product Sold 4.7 32.4 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Net gains on the CWAE Divestiture and related activities (83.7 ) Net gain on sale of nonstrategic assets/business (3.3 ) (11.2 ) Loss on contractual obligation from put option of Ruffino shareholder 60.0 34.3 Acquisition related integration costs 0.5 0.2 Net gain on March 2009 sale of value spirits business (0.2 ) Other costs 6.3 42.4 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (20.2 ) 65.5 Impairment of Intangible Assets 23.6 103.2 Restructuring Charges 23.1 47.6 Restructuring Charges and Unusual Items $ 31.2 $ 248.7 Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees The Companys equity in earnings of equity method investees increased to $243.8 million for Fiscal 2011 from $213.6 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $30.2 million, or 14%. This increase is primarily due to the Companys Fiscal 2010 recognition of an impairment of $25.4 million related to its CWNA segments investment in Ruffino and higher Fiscal 2011 equity in earnings of $4.2 million from the Companys Crown Imports joint venture. The Fiscal 2010 impairment resulted from the Companys third quarter review of its equity method investments for other than temporary impairment. As a result of this review, the Company determined that the CWNA segments investment in Ruffino was impaired primarily due to a decline in revenue and profit forecasts for this international equity method investee combined with an unfavorable foreign exchange movement between the euro and the U.S. Dollar. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $25.4 million in equity in earnings of equity method investees on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net sales for Crown Imports increased to $2,392.9 million for Fiscal 2011 from $2,256.2 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $136.7 million, or 6%. This increase resulted primarily from volume growth within the Crown Imports Mexican beer portfolio. Crown Imports gross profit increased $32.1 million, or 5%, primarily due to the volume growth, partially offset by a contractual price increase in Mexican beer costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $23.2 million, or 11%, primarily due to an increase in general and administrative expenses driven largely by an unfavorable arbitration panel decision in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 related to a matter with one of Crown Imports former distributors, and a planned increase in advertising spend. Operating income increased $8.9 million, or 2%, primarily due to these factors. 35 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $3.5 million and $10.4 million, for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively, decreased to $195.3 million for Fiscal 2011 from $265.1 million for Fiscal 2010, a decrease of $69.8 million, or (26%). The decrease resulted from lower average interest rates for the Company combined with reduced average borrowings for Fiscal 2011. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 is (1.5%) and 61.7%, respectively. The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2011 of (1.5%) was driven largely by a benefit of $207.0 million associated with the deduction for investments and loans related to the CWAE Divestiture and a decrease in uncertain tax positions of $36.0 million in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations and the expiration of statutes of limitation during Fiscal 2011, partially offset by the recognition of valuation allowances against net operating losses in the U.K. and Australia. The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2010 of 61.7% was driven largely by (i) a nondeductible portion of the impairment loss related to certain trademarks of $93.7 million, (ii) the recognition of nondeductible charges of $59.7 million related to the Companys Ruffino investment and (iii) $37.5 million of taxes associated with the sale of the value spirits business, primarily related to the write off of nondeductible goodwill; partially offset by a decrease in uncertain tax positions of $33.0 million in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations during Fiscal 2010. Net Income As a result of the above factors, net income increased to $559.5 million for Fiscal 2011 from $99.3 million for Fiscal 2010, an increase of $460.2 million. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales by reportable segment of the Company for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009. Fiscal Fiscal % (Decrease) 2010 2009 Increase (in millions) CWNA net sales $ 2,434.7 $ 2,703.4 (10 )% CWAE net sales 930.1 951.2 (2 )% Crown Imports net sales 2,256.2 2,395.4 (6 )% Consolidations and eliminations (2,256.2 ) (2,395.4 ) 6 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 3,364.8 $ 3,654.6 (8 )% Net sales for Fiscal 2010 decreased to $3,364.8 million from $3,654.6 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $289.8 million, or (8%). This decrease resulted primarily from decreases in spirits net sales and U.S. base branded wine net sales of $195.2 million and $70.7 million, respectively, and an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $66.8 million, partially offset by growth of U.K. branded wine net sales of $35.2 million (on a constant currency basis). 36 Table of Contents Constellation Wines North America Net sales for CWNA decreased to $2,434.7 million for Fiscal 2010 from $2,703.4 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $268.7 million, or (10%). This decrease resulted primarily from decreases in spirits net sales of $195.2 million and U.S. base branded wine net sales of $70.7 million. The decrease in spirits net sales was due to a decrease of $230.0 million in connection with the divestitures of the value spirits business and a Canadian distilling facility, partially offset by growth within the retained spirits business driven largely by volume growth of SVEDKA Vodka. The decrease in the U.S. base branded wine net sales was due primarily to the Companys fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 strategic decision to assist U.S. distributors in reducing their higher than average inventory levels. The higher inventory levels resulted primarily from a planned build in inventory levels during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 in advance of the September 1, 2009, U.S. distributor transition program. These actions had the planned effect of moving a portion of third quarter of fiscal 2010 sales into the second quarter of fiscal 2010. However, during the third quarter of fiscal 2010, distributor depletions were not as strong as expected. As a result, U.S. distributor inventory levels were higher than expected at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010. As such, the Company, in collaboration with certain of its newly contracted U.S. distributors, did not require these distributors to purchase the original contracted amount during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The Company estimated that this decision unfavorably impacted the U.S. branded wine net sales by approximately $60 to $70 million. Constellation Wines Australia and Europe Net sales for CWAE decreased to $930.1 million for Fiscal 2010 from $951.2 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $21.1 million, or (2%). This decrease was driven primarily by an unfavorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $61.4 million, partially offset by $35.2 million of U.K. base branded wine growth on a constant currency basis. This increase was due primarily to volume growth of lower priced products. Crown Imports As this segment is eliminated in consolidation, see Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees below for a discussion of Crown Imports net sales, gross profit, selling, general and administrative expenses, and operating income. Gross Profit The Companys gross profit decreased to $1,144.8 million for Fiscal 2010 from $1,230.0 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $85.2 million, or (7%). This decrease was due to a decrease in CWNAs gross profit of $122.0 million and CWAEs gross profit of $58.1 million, partially offset by a decrease in unusual items, which consist of certain amounts that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, of $94.9 million. The decrease in CWNAs gross profit was primarily due to the divestitures of certain lower margin businesses, primarily the value spirits business, of $76.6 million, and a decrease in the U.S. base branded wine portfolio of $35.8 million. The decrease in the U.S. base branded wine gross profit was largely due to the lower net sales to certain U.S. distributors. The decrease in CWAEs gross profit was primarily due to the flow through of higher Australian calendar 2008 harvest costs and an unfavorable mix of sales towards lower margin products. The lower unusual items was primarily due to a decrease in inventory write downs of $92.2 million in Fiscal 2010 compared to Fiscal 2009 due largely to (i) inventory write downs of $53.9 million recorded in Fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys Australian Initiative and (ii) a loss of $37.0 million on the adjustment of certain inventory, primarily Australian, related to prior years. 37 Table of Contents Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased to 34.0% for Fiscal 2010 from 33.7% for Fiscal 2009 primarily due to the lower unusual items, partially offset by the decrease in CWAEs gross profit resulting primarily from the flow through of higher Australian calendar 2008 harvest costs and the unfavorable mix of sales towards lower margin products. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to $682.5 million for Fiscal 2010 from $832.0 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $149.5 million, or (18%). This decrease was due to decreases in the CWNA segment of $115.7 million, the CWAE segment of $27.9 million and unusual items, which consist of certain amounts that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, of $13.8 million, partially offset by an increase in the Corporate Operations and Other segment of $7.9 million. The decrease in CWNAs selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to decreases (on a constant currency basis) in general and administrative expenses of $51.4 million, selling expenses of $37.6 million and advertising expenses of $25.2 million. These decreases are largely attributable to (i) the divestitures of certain lower margin value businesses, primarily the value spirits business; (ii) cost savings in connection with the Companys various restructuring activities; (iii) planned reductions in marketing and advertising spend; and (iv) an overlap of prior year losses on foreign currency transactions. The decrease in CWAEs selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to decreases (on a constant currency basis) in advertising expenses of $12.5 million and selling expenses of $3.6 million, combined with a favorable year over year foreign currency translation impact of $10.4 million. These decreases are due largely to planned reductions in marketing and advertising spend and cost savings in connection with the Companys various restructuring activities. The decrease in unusual items consists of the following: Fiscal Fiscal (Decrease) 2010 2009 Increase (in millions) Loss on contractual obligation from put option of Ruffino shareholder $ 34.3 $ $ 34.3 (Gain) loss on sale of nonstrategic business/assets (11.2 ) 8.1 (19.3 ) Net (gain) loss on March 2009 sale of value spirits business (0.2 ) 15.6 (15.8 ) Acquisition related integration costs 0.2 8.2 (8.0 ) Loss on sale of Pacific Northwest Business 23.2 (23.2 ) Other costs 42.4 24.2 18.2 $ 65.5 $ 79.3 $ (13.8 ) The increase in other costs above is due largely to $34.9 million of other costs recognized in Fiscal 2010 in connection with the Companys Global Initiative plan compared to $16.0 million of other costs recognized in Fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys plan (announced in August 2006) to invest in new distribution and bottling facilities in the U.K. and to streamline certain Australian wine operations (collectively, the Fiscal 2007 Wine Plan). The increase in the Corporate Operations and Other segments selling, general and administrative expenses was due to an increase in general and administrative expenses resulting primarily from Project Fusion. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales decreased to 20.3% for Fiscal 2010 as compared to 22.8% for Fiscal 2009 primarily due to cost savings in connection with the Companys various restructuring activities, the planned reductions in marketing and advertising spend and the overlap of prior year losses on foreign currency transactions. 38 Table of Contents Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets During Fiscal 2010, the Company recorded impairment losses of $103.2 million, consisting of impairment of certain trademarks related primarily to its CWAE segments Australian reporting unit. During Fiscal 2009, the Company recorded impairment losses of $300.4 million, consisting of impairments of goodwill and certain trademarks of $252.8 million and $47.6 million, respectively, related primarily to its CWAE segments U.K. reporting unit. Restructuring Charges The Company recorded $47.6 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2010 associated primarily with the Companys Global Initiative and Australian Initiative. Restructuring charges included $25.0 million of employee termination benefit costs, $13.4 million of impairment charges on assets sold or held for sale in Australia, $7.6 million of contract termination costs and $1.6 million of facility consolidation/relocation costs. The Company recorded $68.0 million of restructuring charges for Fiscal 2009 associated primarily with the Companys Australian Initiative. In addition, the Company incurred additional costs for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys restructuring and acquisition related integration plans. Total costs incurred in connection with these plans for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 are as follows: Fiscal Fiscal 2010 2009 (in millions) Cost of Product Sold Accelerated depreciation $ 17.7 $ 11.2 Inventory write downs $ 1.6 $ 56.8 Other $ 4.7 $ Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Acquisition related integration costs $ 0.2 $ 8.2 Other costs $ 42.4 $ 24.2 Impairment of Intangible Assets $ $ 22.2 Restructuring Charges $ 47.6 $ 68.0 Operating Income The following table sets forth the operating income (loss) by reportable segment of the Company for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009. Fiscal Fiscal % (Decrease) 2010 2009 Increase (in millions) CWNA $ 638.0 $ 644.3 (1 )% CWAE 16.9 47.1 (64 )% Corporate Operations and Other (94.7 ) (86.8 ) (9 )% Crown Imports 444.1 504.1 (12 )% Consolidations and eliminations (444.1 ) (504.1 ) 12 % Total Reportable Segments 560.2 604.6 (7 )% Restructuring Charges and Unusual Items (248.7 ) (575.0 ) NM Consolidated Operating Income $ 311.5 $ 29.6 NM 39 Table of Contents As a result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased to $311.5 million for Fiscal 2010 from $29.6 million for Fiscal 2009, an increase of $281.9 million. Restructuring charges and unusual items of $248.7 million and $575.0 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively, consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs include: Fiscal Fiscal 2010 2009 (in millions) Cost of Product Sold Accelerated depreciation $ 17.7 $ 11.2 Flow through of inventory step up 8.4 22.2 Inventory write downs 1.6 56.8 Other 4.7 37.1 Cost of Product Sold 32.4 127.3 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Loss on contractual obligation from put option of Ruffino shareholder 34.3 (Gain) loss on sale of nonstrategic business/assets (11.2 ) 8.1 Net (gain) loss on March 2009 sale of value spirits business (0.2 ) 15.6 Acquisition related integration costs 0.2 8.2 Loss on sale of Pacific Northwest Business 23.2 Other costs 42.4 24.2 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 65.5 79.3 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets 103.2 300.4 Restructuring Charges 47.6 68.0 Restructuring Charges and Unusual Items $ 248.7 $ 575.0 Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees The Companys equity in earnings of equity method investees increased to $213.6 million for Fiscal 2010 from $186.6 million for Fiscal 2009, an increase of $27.0 million, or 14%. This increase was primarily due to the recognition of a $25.4 million impairment loss recognized in Fiscal 2010 related to the Companys CWNA segments international equity method investment in Ruffino as compared to $83.3 million of impairment losses recognized in Fiscal 2009 related primarily to Ruffino ($48.6 million) and the Companys CWAE segments international equity method investment in the U.K. wholesale business, Matthew Clark ($30.1 million). The increase in equity in earnings of equity method investees from lower impairment losses in Fiscal 2010 was partially offset by a decrease of $30.4 million in equity in earnings from the Companys Crown Imports joint venture. Net sales for Crown Imports decreased to $2,256.2 million for Fiscal 2010 from $2,395.4 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $139.2 million, or (6%). This decrease resulted primarily from lower volumes within the Crown Imports Mexican beer portfolio. Crown Imports gross profit decreased $59.0 million, or (8%), primarily due to these lower sales volumes and a contractual price increase in Mexican beer costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.0 million, primarily due to an increase in selling expenses as increased advertising spend by Crown Imports in connection with certain Fiscal 2010 national media programs was offset by contributions from the brand owner for this increased advertising spend in Fiscal 2010. Operating income decreased $60.0 million, or (12%), primarily due to these factors. 40 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income of $10.4 million and $3.8 million, for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively, decreased to $265.1 million for Fiscal 2010 from $323.0 million for Fiscal 2009, a decrease of $57.9 million, or (18%). This decrease was primarily due to lower average borrowings for Fiscal 2010 resulting predominantly from the repayment of a portion of the Companys outstanding borrowings using the proceeds from the sale of the value spirits business and the U.K. cider business. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2010 of 61.7% was driven largely by (i) a nondeductible portion of the impairment loss related to certain trademarks of $93.7 million, (ii) the recognition of nondeductible charges of $59.7 million related to the Companys Ruffino investment; and (iii) $37.5 million of taxes associated with the sale of the value spirits business, primarily related to the write off of nondeductible goodwill; partially offset by a decrease in uncertain tax positions of $33.0 million in connection with the completion of various income tax examinations during Fiscal 2010. The Companys effective tax rate for Fiscal 2009 of (182.2%) was impacted primarily by (i) a nondeductible portion of the impairment losses related to goodwill, equity method investments and certain trademarks of $268.8 million, $83.3 million and $23.6 million, respectively; (ii) the recognition of a valuation allowance of $67.4 million against net operating losses primarily in Australia resulting largely from the Australian Initiative; and (iii) the recognition of income tax expense in connection with the gain on settlement of certain foreign currency economic hedges. Net Income (Loss) As a result of the above factors, net income increased to $99.3 million for Fiscal 2010 from a net loss of $301.4 million for Fiscal 2009, or $400.7 million. Financial Liquidity and Capital Resources General The Companys principal use of cash in its operating activities is for purchasing and carrying inventories and carrying seasonal accounts receivable. The Companys primary source of liquidity has historically been cash flow from operations, except during annual grape harvests when the Company has relied on short term borrowings. In the U.S. and Canada, the annual grape crush normally begins in August and runs through October. In New Zealand, the annual grape crush normally begins in February and runs through May. The Company generally begins taking delivery of grapes at the beginning of the crush season with the majority of payments for such grapes coming due within 90 days. The Companys short term borrowings to support such purchases generally reach their highest levels one to two months after the crush season has ended. Historically, the Company has used cash flow from operating activities to repay its short term borrowings and fund capital expenditures. The Company will continue to use its short term borrowings to support its working capital requirements. 41 Table of Contents The Company has maintained adequate liquidity to meet current working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures and repay scheduled principal and interest payments on debt. Absent deterioration of market conditions, the Company believes that cash flows from operating activities and its financing activities, primarily short term borrowings, will provide adequate resources to satisfy its working capital, scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, and anticipated capital expenditure requirements for both its short term and long term capital needs. As of April 19, 2011, the Company had $595.4 million in revolving loans available to be drawn under its 2006 Credit Agreement (as defined below). The member financial institutions participating in the Companys 2006 Credit Agreement have complied with prior funding requests and the Company believes the member financial institutions will comply with ongoing funding requests. However, there can be no assurances that any particular financial institution will continue to do so in the future. Fiscal 2011 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2011 was $619.3 million, which resulted primarily from net income of $559.5 million, plus $255.7 million of net noncash items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Operations, partially offset by net cash used in the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities of $161.0 million. The net noncash items consisted primarily of depreciation expense, loss on settlement of pension obligations associated with the CWAE Divestiture, deferred tax provision, loss on contractual obligation from put option of Ruffino shareholder and stock based compensation expense, partially offset by the net gain on business sold associated with the CWAE Divestiture. The net cash used in the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities is driven primarily by decreases in other accrued expenses and liabilities of $168.6 million and accounts payable of $82.5 million combined with an increase in accounts receivable, net, of $86.0 million, partially offset by a decrease in inventories of $190.8 million. The decrease in other accrued expenses and liabilities is due largely to the recognition of income tax benefits in connection with the CWAE Divestiture. The decrease in accounts payable is due primarily to lower grape grower payables in Australia as a result of the timing of the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture in advance of the calendar 2011 Australian grape harvest and the timing of payments in the U.K. (through January 31, 2011). The increase in accounts receivable, net is due primarily to the net sales volume growth in the U.S. branded wine portfolio. The decrease in inventories is due largely to decreases in Australian, U.S. and New Zealand inventory levels. The reduction in Australian inventory levels is primarily due to a later calendar 2011 grape harvest combined with the January 2011 CWAE Divestiture. The decrease in the U.S. inventory levels is primarily due to the flow through of higher 2008 U.S. calendar grape costs combined with the net sales volume growth during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 in the U.S. branded wine portfolio. The reduction in New Zealand inventory levels is primarily due to lower tonnage and grape costs associated with the calendar 2011 grape harvest. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for Fiscal 2011 was $188.1 million, which resulted primarily from proceeds from the sale of businesses, net of cash divested, of $219.7 million driven primarily by the proceeds from the CWAE Divestiture, net of direct costs to sell, and proceeds from the note receivable received in connection with the divestiture of the value spirits business of $60.0 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $89.1 million and a payment in connection with the settlement of the irrevocable and unconditional put option of the incremental 9.9% ownership interest associated with the Companys equity method investment, Ruffino, of $29.6 million. 42 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for Fiscal 2011 was $845.7 million resulting primarily from principal payments of long term debt of $328.5 million, purchases of treasury stock through the ASB transaction (as defined below) of $300.0 million and net repayment of notes payable of $289.7 million, partially offset by proceeds from exercise of employee stock options of $61.0 million. Fiscal 2010 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2010 was $402.5 million, which resulted primarily from net income of $99.3 million, plus $312.0 million of net noncash items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Operations and $47.1 million of other, net, less $55.9 million representing the net change in the Companys operating assets and liabilities. The net noncash items consisted primarily of depreciation expense, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, stock based compensation expense and loss on the contractual obligation from the put option of a Ruffino shareholder. Other, net, consists primarily of cash proceeds from the settlement of certain derivative instruments designated to hedge foreign currency risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated transactions. The net change in operating assets and liabilities resulted primarily from a decrease in other accrued expenses and liabilities of $110.6 million and a decrease of $42.7 million in accounts payable, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable, net, and inventories of $61.9 million and $51.0 million, respectively. The decrease in other accrued expenses and liabilities of $110.6 million is primarily due to higher income tax payments for Fiscal 2010 and lower accrued interest resulting primarily from the timing of interest payments. The decrease in accounts payable of $42.7 million is due largely to lower grape grower payables in Australia associated with the calendar 2010 harvest and the timing of payments in the U.K. business. The decrease in accounts receivable, net, of $61.9 million primarily reflects the impact of the reduced branded wine net sales in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and the liquidation of the accounts receivable balances associated with the January 2010 divestiture of the U.K. cider business. The decrease in inventories of $51.0 million is primarily due to the flow through of the higher calendar 2008 Australian harvest costs in Fiscal 2010, partially offset by an increase in the Companys U.S. branded wine inventory levels resulting largely from the reduced branded wine net sales in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for Fiscal 2010 was $256.6 million, which resulted primarily from the proceeds of $349.6 million from the divestitures of the value spirits business and the U.K. cider business, both net of direct costs to sell, partially offset by $107.7 million of capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for Fiscal 2010 was $623.0 million resulting primarily from principal payments of long term debt of $781.3 million, partially offset by net proceeds from notes payable of $117.1 million and proceeds from maturity of a derivative instrument of $33.2 million. 43 Table of Contents Share Repurchase Programs In April 2010, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300.0 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common Stock. During Fiscal 2011, the Company repurchased 17,223,404 shares of Class A Common Stock pursuant to this authorization at an aggregate cost of $300.0 million, or an average cost of $17.42 per share, through a collared accelerated stock buyback (ASB) transaction that was announced in April 2010. The Company paid the purchase price under the ASB transaction in April 2010, at which time it received an initial installment of 11,016,451 shares of Class A Common Stock. In May 2010, the Company received an additional installment of 2,785,029 shares of Class A Common Stock in connection with the early termination of the hedge period on May 10, 2010. In November 2010, the Company received the final installment of 3,421,924 shares of Class A Common Stock following the end of the calculation period on November 24, 2010. The Company used revolver borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreement to pay the purchase price for the repurchased shares. During Fiscal 2011, the Company has used cash flows from operating activities to repay the revolver borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreement used to pay the purchase price for the repurchased shares. The repurchased shares have become treasury shares. In April 2011, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500.0 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Convertible Common Stock. The Board of Directors did not specify a date upon which this authorization would expire. Share repurchases under this authorization are expected to be accomplished from time to time based on market conditions, the Companys cash and debt position, and other factors as determined by management. Shares may be repurchased through open market or privately negotiated transactions, and management currently expects that the repurchase under this authorization will be implemented over a multi year period. The Company may fund share repurchases with cash generated from operations or proceeds of borrowings under its senior credit facility. Any repurchased shares will become treasury shares. As of April 28, 2011, no shares have been repurchased pursuant to this authorization. Debt Total debt outstanding as of February 28, 2011, amounted to $3,236.3 million, a decrease of $599.2 million from February 28, 2010. Senior Credit Facility 2006 Credit Agreement The Company and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a lender and administrative agent, and certain other agents, lenders, and financial institutions are parties to a credit agreement, as amended (the 2006 Credit Agreement). The 2006 Credit Agreement provides for aggregate credit facilities of $3,842.0 million, consisting of (i) a $1,200.0 million tranche A term loan facility with an original final maturity in June 2011, fully repaid as of February 28, 2011 (the Tranche A Term Loans), (ii) a $1,800.0 million tranche B term loan facility, of which $1,500.0 million has a final maturity in June 2013 (the 2013 Tranche B Term Loans) and $300.0 million has a final maturity in June 2015 (the 2015 Tranche B Term Loans), and (iii) an $842.0 million revolving credit facility (including a sub facility for letters of credit of up to $200 million), of which $192.0 million terminates in June 2011 (the 2011 Revolving Facility) and $650.0 million terminates in June 2013 (the 2013 Revolving Facility). The Company uses its revolving credit facility under the 2006 Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes. 44 Table of Contents As of February 28, 2011, the required principal repayments of the tranche B term loan facility for each of the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter are as follows: Tranche B Term Loan Facility (in millions) 2012 $ 5.6 2013 466.4 2014 465.1 2015 146.2 2016 144.7 Thereafter $ 1,228.0 The rate of interest on borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreement is a function of LIBOR plus a margin, the federal funds rate plus a margin, or the prime rate plus a margin. The margin is adjustable based upon the Companys debt ratio (as defined in the 2006 Credit Agreement) with respect to the 2011 Revolving Facility and the 2013 Revolving Facility, and is fixed with respect to the 2013 Tranche B Term Loans and the 2015 Tranche B Term Loans. As of February 28, 2011, the LIBOR margin for the 2011 Revolving Facility is 1.25%; the LIBOR margin for the 2013 Revolving Facility is 2.50%; the LIBOR margin for the 2013 Tranche B Term Loans is 1.50%; and the LIBOR margin on the 2015 Tranche B Term Loans is 2.75%. The Companys obligations are guaranteed by certain of its U.S. subsidiaries. These obligations are also secured by a pledge of (i) 100% of the ownership interests in certain of the Companys U.S. subsidiaries and (ii) 65% of the voting capital stock of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to covenants that are contained in the 2006 Credit Agreement, including those restricting the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including guarantees of indebtedness), additional liens, mergers and consolidations, the disposition or acquisition of property, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates and the making of certain investments, in each case subject to numerous conditions, exceptions and thresholds. The financial covenants are limited to maintaining a maximum total debt coverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio. As of February 28, 2011, under the 2006 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding 2013 Tranche B Term Loans of $928.0 million bearing an interest rate of 1.8%, 2015 Tranche B Term Loans of $300.0 million bearing an interest rate of 3.1%, 2011 Revolving Facility of $7.5 million bearing an interest rate of 3.5%, 2013 Revolving Facility of $67.4 million bearing an interest rate of 3.1%, outstanding letters of credit of $13.9 million, and $753.2 million in revolving loans available to be drawn. As of April 19, 2011, following a $300.0 million prepayment of the tranche B term loan facility in March 2011, under the 2006 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding 2013 Tranche B Term Loans of $700.2 million bearing an interest rate of 1.8%, 2015 Tranche B Term Loans of $226.4 million bearing an interest rate 3.0%, 2011 Revolving Facility of $43.3 million bearing an interest rate of 1.5%, 2013 Revolving Facility of $189.4 million bearing an interest rate of 2.6%, outstanding letters of credit of $13.9 million, and $595.4 million in revolving loans available to be drawn. 45 Table of Contents Through February 28, 2010, the Company had outstanding interest rate swap agreements which were designated as cash flow hedges of $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt. The designated cash flow hedges fixed the Companys interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt through February 28, 2010. In addition, the Company had offsetting undesignated interest rate swap agreements with an absolute notional amount of $2,400.0 million outstanding as of February 28, 2010. On March 1, 2010, the Company paid $11.9 million in connection with the maturity of these outstanding interest rate swap agreements, which is reported in other, net in cash flows from operating activities in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In June 2010, the Company entered into a new five year delayed start interest rate swap agreement effective September 1, 2011, which was designated as a cash flow hedge for $500.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt. Accordingly, the Company fixed its interest rates on $500.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 2.9% (exclusive of borrowing margins) through September 1, 2016. For Fiscal 2011, the Company did not reclassify any amount from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) to interest expense, net on its Consolidated Statements of Operations. For Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, the Company reclassified net losses of $27.7 million and $12.6 million, respectively, net of income tax effect, from AOCI to interest expense, net on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Senior Notes In November 1999, the Company issued 75.0 million ($121.7 million upon issuance) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Senior Notes). In March 2000, the Company exchanged 75.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series B Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series B Senior Notes) for all of the Sterling Senior Notes. In October 2000, the Company exchanged 74.0 million aggregate principal amount of Sterling Series C Senior Notes (as defined below) for 74.0 million of the Sterling Series B Senior Notes. On May 15, 2000, the Company issued 80.0 million ($120.0 million upon issuance) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series C Senior Notes due November 2009 (the Sterling Series C Senior Notes). In November 2009, the Company repaid the Sterling Series B Senior Notes and the Sterling Series C Senior Notes with proceeds from the Companys revolving credit facility under its then existing senior credit facility and cash flows from operating activities. In February 2009, the Company entered into a foreign currency forward contract to fix the U.S. dollar payment of the Sterling Series B Senior Notes and Sterling Series C Senior Notes. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) guidance for derivatives and hedging, this foreign currency forward contract qualified for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. In November 2009, the Company received $33.2 million of proceeds from the maturity of this derivative instrument. This amount is reported in cash flows from financing activities on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Fiscal 2010. As of February 28, 2011, the Company had outstanding $695.6 million (net of $4.4 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due September 2016 (the August 2006 Senior Notes). 46 Table of Contents In May 2007, the Company issued $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due May 2017 (the Original May 2007 Senior Notes). The net proceeds of the offering ($693.9 million) were used to reduce a corresponding amount of borrowings under the revolving portion of the Companys then existing senior credit facility. In January 2008, the Company exchanged $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/4% Senior Notes due May 2017 (the May 2007 Senior Notes) for all of the Original May 2007 Senior Notes. The terms of the May 2007 Senior Notes are substantially identical in all material respects to the Original May 2007 Senior Notes, except that the May 2007 Senior Notes are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As of February 28, 2011, the Company had outstanding $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of May 2007 Senior Notes. In December 2007, the Company issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 3/8% Senior Notes due December 2014 at an issuance price of $496.7 million (net of $3.3 million unamortized discount, with an effective interest rate of 8.5%) (the December 2007 Senior Notes). The net proceeds of the offering ($492.2 million) were used to fund a portion of the purchase price of BWE. As of February 28, 2011, the Company had outstanding $498.0 million (net of $2.0 million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of December 2007 Senior Notes. The senior notes described above are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the outstanding principal amount plus a make whole payment based on the present value of the future payments at the adjusted Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points. The senior notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment to all existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness of the Company. Certain of the Companys significant U.S. operating subsidiaries guarantee the senior notes, on a senior unsecured basis. Senior Subordinated Notes In January 2002, the Company issued $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due January 2012 (the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes). On February 25, 2010, the Company repaid the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes with proceeds from its revolving credit facility under the 2006 Credit Agreement and cash flows from operating activities. Indentures The Companys indentures under which its outstanding senior notes were issued contain customary covenants, requirements and restrictions, the breach of which could result in an acceleration of the Companys obligation to repay the senior notes. Subsidiary Credit Facilities The Company has additional credit arrangements totaling $154.2 million as of February 28, 2011. These arrangements primarily support the financing needs of the Companys domestic and foreign subsidiary operations. Interest rates and other terms of these borrowings vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions. As of February 28, 2011, amounts outstanding under these arrangements were $39.8 million. 47 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table sets forth information about the Companys long term contractual obligations outstanding at February 28, 2011. The table brings together data for easy reference from the consolidated balance sheet and from individual notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. See Notes 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of the items noted in the following table. PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD Less than After Total 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years 5 years (in millions) Contractual obligations Notes payable to banks $ 83.7 $ 83.7 $ $ $ Interest payments on notes payable to banks(1) 2.6 2.6 Long term debt (excluding unamortized discount) 3,159.0 15.9 939.8 796.5 1,406.8 Interest payments on long term debt(2) 971.9 175.4 328.7 242.9 224.9 Operating leases 340.2 59.8 76.0 46.1 158.3 Other long term liabilities(3) 141.3 25.5 36.2 10.4 69.2 Unconditional purchase obligations(4) 1,401.5 423.0 616.8 256.5 105.2 Total contractual obligations $ 6,100.2 $ 785.9 $ 1,997.5 $ 1,352.4 $ 1,964.4 (1) Interest payments on notes payable to banks include interest on both revolving loans under the Companys senior credit facility and on foreign subsidiary credit facilities. The weighted average interest rate on the revolving loans under the Companys senior credit facility was 3.2% as of February 28, 2011. Interest rates on foreign subsidiary credit facilities range from 3.0% to 5.9% as of February 28, 2011. (2) Interest rates on long term debt obligations range from 2.1% to 8.4% as of February 28, 2011. Interest payments on long term debt obligations include amounts associated with the Companys outstanding interest rate swap agreements to fix LIBOR interest rates on $500.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt. Interest payments on long term debt do not include interest related to capital lease obligations or certain foreign credit arrangements, which represent approximately 1.0% of the Companys total long term debt, as amounts are not material. (3) Other long term liabilities include $21.5 million associated with expected payments for unrecognized tax benefit liabilities as of February 28, 2011, including $5.3 million in the less than one year period. The payments are reflected in the period in which the Company believes they will ultimately be settled based on the Companys experience in these matters. Other long term liabilities do not include payments for unrecognized tax benefit liabilities of $132.9 million due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. In addition, other long term liabilities do not include expected payments for interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax benefit liabilities as amounts are not material. See Note 12 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of these items. (4) Total unconditional purchase obligations consist of $915.5 million for contracts to purchase grapes over the next fourteen fiscal years, $29.4 million for contracts to purchase bulk wine over the next three fiscal years, $326.5 million for contracts to purchase certain raw materials over the next four fiscal years, and $130.1 million for processing contracts over the next nine fiscal years. See Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a detailed discussion of these items. 48 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off balance sheet arrangements that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. Capital Expenditures During Fiscal 2011, the Company incurred $89.1 million for capital expenditures. The Company plans to spend from $85 million to $95 million for capital expenditures in Fiscal 2012. Included within the planned expenditures for Fiscal 2012 are amounts associated with the Companys Project Fusion. Management reviews the capital expenditure program periodically and modifies it as required to meet current business needs. Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices The Companys results of operations and financial condition have not been significantly affected by inflation and changing prices. The Company intends to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices, subject to normal competitive conditions. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will be able to pass along rising costs through increased selling prices. In addition, the Company continues to identify on going cost savings initiatives. Critical Accounting Policies The Companys significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. However, certain of the Companys accounting policies are particularly important to the portrayal of the Companys financial position and results of operations and require the application of significant judgment by the Companys management; as a result, they are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. In applying those policies, the Companys management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. Those estimates are based on the Companys historical experience, the Companys observance of trends in the industry, information provided by the Companys customers and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. On an ongoing basis, the Company reviews its estimates to ensure that they appropriately reflect changes in the Companys business. The Companys critical accounting policies include: Inventory valuation. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being determined on the first in, first out method. The Company assesses the valuation of its inventories and reduces the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of the Companys forecasted usage to their estimated net realizable value. The Company estimates the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements. Reductions to the carrying value of inventories are recorded in cost of product sold. If the future demand for the Companys products is less favorable than the Companys forecasts, then the value of the inventories may be required to be reduced, which could result in material additional expense to the Company and have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. The Company recognized inventory write downs to net realizable value of $1.6 million and $56.8 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively, in connection with certain of the Companys restructuring plans, primarily the Australian Initative. Inventory write downs to net realizable value recognized in the ordinary course of business were not material for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009. Inventories were $1,369.3 million and $1,879.9 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. 49 Table of Contents Goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company accounts for goodwill and other intangible assets by classifying intangible assets into three categories: (i) intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization; (ii) intangible assets with indefinite lives not subject to amortization; and (iii) goodwill. For intangible assets with definite lives, impairment testing is required if conditions exist that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. For intangible assets with indefinite lives and for goodwill, impairment testing is required at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that these assets might be impaired. The Company performs annual impairment tests and re evaluates the useful lives of other intangible assets with indefinite lives at its annual impairment test measurement date of January 1 or when circumstances arise that indicate a possible impairment might exist. The Company uses a two step process to evaluate goodwill for impairment. In the first step, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill. The estimate of fair value of the reporting unit is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows supplemented by the market approach. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, a second step is performed to determine the amount of the goodwill impairment the Company should record. In the second step, an implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting units fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill (including any unrecognized intangible assets). The resulting implied fair value of the goodwill is compared to the carrying value of goodwill. The amount of impairment charge for goodwill is equal to the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. The Companys reporting units include the U.S., Canada and New Zealand. In estimating the fair value of the reporting units, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as future cash flows, future revenues, future earnings and other factors. The assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are consistent with historical trends and the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. These assumptions reflect managements estimates of future economic and competitive conditions and are, therefore, subject to change as a result of changing market conditions. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. The recording of any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. The most significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flows calculation to determine the fair value of the Companys reporting units in connection with impairment testing are: (i) the discount rate, (ii) the expected long term growth rate and (iii) the annual cash flow projections. If the Company used a discount rate that was 50 basis points higher or used an expected long term growth rate that was 50 basis points lower or used annual cash flow projections that were 100 basis points lower in its impairment testing of goodwill, then the changes individually would not have resulted in the carrying value of the respective reporting units net assets, including its goodwill, exceeding its fair value, which would indicate the potential for impairment and the requirement to measure the amount of impairment, if any. 50 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis. No indication of impairment was noted for any of the Companys reporting units, as the fair value of each of the Companys reporting units with goodwill exceeded their carrying value. Based on this analysis, the fair value of the Companys U.S., New Zealand and Canadian reporting units exceeded their carrying value by approximately 20%, 19% and 18%, respectively. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, as a result of its annual goodwill impairment analysis, the Company concluded that there were no indications of impairment for any of the Companys reporting units. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, as a result of its annual goodwill impairment analysis, the Company concluded that the carrying value of goodwill assigned to the CWAE segments U.K. reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value and recorded an impairment loss of $252.7 million, which is included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Goodwill was $2,619.8 million and $2,570.6 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. The Companys other intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships and trademarks obtained through business acquisitions. Customer relationships are amortized over their estimated useful lives. The useful lives of existing trademarks that were determined to be indefinite are not amortized. These trademarks are evaluated for impairment by comparing the carrying value of the trademarks to their estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of trademarks is calculated based on an income approach using the relief from royalty methodology. The estimated fair value of trademarks is generally determined on the basis of discounted cash flows. The estimate of fair value is then compared to the carrying value of each trademark. If the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value of the trademark, then an impairment charge is recorded by the Company to reduce the carrying value of the trademark to its estimated fair value. In estimating the fair value of the trademarks, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as future cash flows, future revenues, future earnings and other factors. The assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are consistent with historical trends and the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. These assumptions reflect managements estimates of future economic and competitive conditions and are, therefore, subject to change as a result of changing market conditions. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. The recording of any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. The most significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flows calculation to determine the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives in connection with impairment testing are: (i) the discount rate, (ii) the expected long term growth rate and (iii) the annual cash flow projections. If the Company used a discount rate that was 50 basis points higher or used an expected long term growth rate that was 50 basis points lower or used annual cash flow projections that were 100 basis points lower in its impairment testing of intangible assets with indefinite lives, then each change individually would not have resulted in any non impaired unit of accountings carrying value exceeding its fair value. 51 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, pursuant to the Companys accounting policy, the Company performed its annual review of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company determined that certain trademarks associated with the CWNA segments Canadian reporting unit were impaired. As a result of this review, the Company recorded impairment losses of $16.7 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company had previously recorded impairment losses of $6.9 million during its third quarter of fiscal 2011 in connection with the Companys decision to discontinue certain wine brands within its CWNA segments U.S. wine portfolio. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, as a result of its annual review of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment, the Company determined that certain trademarks associated primarily with the CWAE segments Australian reporting unit were impaired. As a result of this review, the Company recorded impairment losses of $103.2 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, as a result of its annual review of indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment, the Company determined that certain trademarks associated primarily with the CWAE segments U.K. reporting unit were impaired. As a result of this review, the Company recorded impairment losses of $25.9 million, which are included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company had previously recorded impairment losses of $21.8 million during its second quarter of fiscal 2009 in connection with the Companys Australian Initiative. Intangible assets with indefinite lives were $822.2 million and $855.7 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. Accounting for promotional activities. Sales reflect reductions attributable to consideration given to customers in various customer incentive programs, including pricing discounts on single transactions, volume discounts, promotional and advertising allowances, coupons, and rebates. Certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the cost of those programs. The accrued liability for these programs is determined through analysis of programs offered, historical trends, expectations regarding customer and consumer participation, sales and payment trends, and experience with payment patterns associated with similar programs that have been offered previously. If assumptions included in the Companys estimates were to change or market conditions were to change, then material incremental reductions to revenue could be required, which could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. Promotional costs were $699.0 million, $749.8 million and $712.1 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Accrued promotion costs were $52.3 million and $111.4 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. 52 Table of Contents Accounting for stock based compensation. The Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions using the modified prospective transition method on March 1, 2006 in accordance with the FASB guidance for compensation stock compensation. Under the fair value recognition provisions of this guidance, stock based compensation cost is calculated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense, net of estimated pre vesting forfeitures, ratably over the vesting period of the award. In addition, this guidance requires additional accounting related to the income tax effects and disclosure regarding the cash flow effects resulting from stock based payment arrangements. The Company selected the Black Scholes option pricing model as the most appropriate fair value method for its awards granted after March 1, 2006. The calculation of fair value of stock based awards requires the input of assumptions, including the expected term of the stock based awards and the associated stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock based awards represent the Companys best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, then stock based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. If the Company used an expected term for its stock based awards that was one year longer, the fair value of stock based awards granted during Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, Fiscal 2009 and for the years ended February 29, 2008 (Fiscal 2008), and February 28, 2007 (Fiscal 2007), would have increased by $27.1 million, resulting in an increase of $5.5 million of stock based compensation expense for Fiscal 2011. If the Company used an expected term of the stock based awards that was one year shorter, the fair value of the stock based awards granted during Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 would have decreased by $27.4 million, resulting in a decrease of $5.3 million of stock based compensation expense for Fiscal 2011. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized for Fiscal 2011 was $47.0 million, of which $43.1 million was expensed for Fiscal 2011 and $3.9 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 28, 2011. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized for Fiscal 2010 was $56.8 million, of which $51.7 million was expensed for Fiscal 2010 and $5.1 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 28, 2010. The total amount of stock based compensation recognized for Fiscal 2009 was $47.5 million, of which $42.9 million was expensed for Fiscal 2009 and $4.6 million was capitalized in inventory as of February 28, 2009. 53 Table of Contents Accounting for income taxes. The Company estimates its income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits based upon various factors including, but not limited to, historical pretax operating income, future estimates of pretax operating income, differences between book and tax treatment of items of income and expense and tax planning strategies. The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S., Canada, New Zealand and other jurisdictions. The Company recognizes its deferred tax assets and liabilities based upon the expected future tax outcome of amounts recognized in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. If necessary, the Company records a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets if the realization of the asset appears doubtful. The Company believes that all tax positions are fully supported, however the Company records tax liabilities in accordance with the FASBs guidance for income tax accounting when certain positions are likely to be challenged and may not succeed. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from the Companys current estimate of the tax liabilities. In addition, changes in existing tax laws or rates could significantly change the Companys current estimate of its tax liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which they are determined. Changes in current estimates, if significant, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. The annual effective tax rate was (1.5%), 61.7% and (182.2%) for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Accounting for business combinations. The acquisition of businesses is an important element of the Companys strategy. Under the acquisition method, the Company is required to record the net assets acquired at the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The determination of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Companys financial statements. For example, the Companys acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets; the value and estimated life of those assets may affect the amount of future period amortization expense for intangible assets with finite lives as well as possible impairment charges that may be incurred. Amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets was $5.5 million, $5.8 million and $6.8 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Amortizable intangible assets were $64.1 million and $69.3 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. 54 Table of Contents Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted Fair value measurements and disclosures In January 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures. This guidance requires an entity to (i) disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and the reasons for the transfers, and (ii) present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). This guidance also clarifies existing disclosures requiring an entity to provide fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities and, for Level 2 or Level 3 fair value measurements, disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. Effective March 1, 2010, the Company adopted the additional disclosure requirements and clarifications of existing disclosures of this guidance, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). The Company is required to adopt those disclosures for its annual and interim periods beginning March 1, 2011. The adoption of the applicable provisions of this guidance on March 1, 2010, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The adoption of the remaining provision of this guidance on March 1, 2011, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Intangibles goodwill and other In December 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance for when to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. The amended guidance modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. Any resulting goodwill impairment upon adoption should be recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the period of adoption. The Company is required to adopt the guidance for its annual and interim periods beginning March 1, 2011. The adoption of this amended guidance on March 1, 2011, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company, as a result of its global operating, acquisition and financing activities, is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To manage the volatility relating to these risks, the Company periodically purchases and or sells derivative instruments including foreign currency forward and option contracts and interest rate swap agreements. The Company uses derivative instruments solely to reduce the financial impact of these risks and does not use derivative instruments for trading purposes. Foreign currency derivative instruments are or may be used to hedge existing foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, forecasted foreign currency denominated sales/purchases to/from third parties as well as intercompany sales/purchases, intercompany principal and interest payments, and in connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the U.S. As of February 28, 2011, the Company had exposures to foreign currency risk primarily related to the euro, New Zealand dollar and Canadian dollar. 55 Table of Contents As of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, the Company had outstanding foreign currency derivative instruments with a notional value of $326.4 million and $1,020.1 million, respectively. Approximately 47% of the Companys total exposures were hedged as of February 28, 2011, including most of the Companys balance sheet exposures and certain of the Companys forecasted transactional exposures. The estimated fair value of the Companys foreign currency derivative instruments was a net asset of $11.7 million and $14.6 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. Using a sensitivity analysis based on estimated fair value of open contracts using forward rates, if the contract base currency had been 10% weaker as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, the fair value of open foreign currency contracts would have been decreased by $0.4 million and $13.2 million, respectively. Losses or gains from the revaluation or settlement of the related underlying positions would substantially offset such gains or losses on the derivative instruments. The fair value of fixed rate debt is subject to interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk. The estimated fair value of the Companys total fixed rate debt, including current maturities, was $2,104.0 million and $1,974.3 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of fixed interest rate long term debt by $90.3 million and $97.3 million, respectively. As of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, the Company had outstanding cash flow designated interest rate swap agreements to minimize interest rate volatility. As of February 28, 2011, the swap agreements fix LIBOR interest rates on $500.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 2.9% (exclusive of borrowing margins) through September 1, 2016. As of February 28, 2010, the swap agreements fixed LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Companys floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% through February 28, 2010. In addition, as of February 28, 2010, the Company had offsetting outstanding undesignated interest rate swap agreements with an absolute notional value of $2,400.0 million. The Companys interest rate swap agreements that were outstanding as of February 28, 2010, matured on March 1, 2010. The estimated fair value of the Companys interest rate swap agreements was a net liability of $4.4 million and $12.0 million as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2011, would have favorably increased the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements by $25.1 million. A hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2010, would not have resulted in a significant change in the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements. In addition to the $2,104.0 million and $1,974.3 million estimated fair value of fixed rate debt outstanding as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, respectively, the Company also had variable rate debt outstanding (primarily LIBOR based), certain of which includes a fixed margin. As of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, the estimated fair value of the Companys total variable rate debt, including current maturities was $1,278.0 million and $1,879.2 million, respectively. Using a sensitivity analysis based on a hypothetical 1% increase in prevailing interest rates over a 12 month period, the approximate increase in cash required for interest as of February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, is $29.0 million and $19.2 million, respectively. 56 Table of Contents 
 
