FILE:DE/DE-8K-20060905133816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report: 
5 September 2006
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
 
D E E R E  &  C O M P A N Y
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01    Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
MOLINE, IL (September 5, 2006)  Deere & Company today said it expects to release commentary on August 2006 retail sales next week. The company's statement will be available in the form of a recorded message, accessible by telephone or over the Internet, after the monthly announcement of industry sales by the Association of Equipment Manufacturers. The AEM report is normally made public on or around the tenth day of the month.
 
Deere's statement will provide comment about the AEM data and other information concerning company retail sales of farm machinery, construction equipment, and commercial and consumer equipment.
 
The company's comments will be available on the Internet at www.JohnDeere.com, or by phone at (309) 765-5149, for several days following the AEM announcement. The information is expected to be available by telephone shortly before it is posted on the website. Other information regarding developments at Deere may also be posted on the company website from time to time.
 
 
About John Deere: John Deere (Deere & Company-NYSE:DE) is the world's leading manufacturer of agricultural and forestry equipment; a major manufacturer of construction equipment; and a leading supplier of equipment used in lawn, grounds and turf care. Additionally, John Deere manufactures engines used in heavy equipment and provides financial services and other related activities that support the core businesses. Since its founding in 1837, the company has established a heritage of quality products and services providing performance that endures to customers worldwide.
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 
3


