FILE:DE/DE-8K-20060417154547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
               
 
Retired U.S. Air Force General Richard B. Myers has been elected to the Deere & Company Board of Directors effective April 15, 2006.
 
Mr. Myers will join the Board's Compensation Committee and Pension Plan Oversight Committee.
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
               
 
News Release
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 
Number and Description of Exhibit
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
NEWS RELEASE  April 13, 2006
 
For more information:
Ken Golden
Director, News and Information
Deere & Company
309-765-5678
 
General Richard B. Myers, retired Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
to join Deere & Company Board of Directors
 
MOLINE, Illinois (April 13, 2006)  Deere & Company announced today its board of directors has elected retired U.S. Air Force General Richard B. Myers to the board, effective April 15, 2006. Myers retired after serving as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff  the U.S. military's highest ranking officer  from 2001 to 2005.
 
"John Deere is fortunate that Dick Myers will be joining our board of directors. His deep understanding of strategy and complex global issues, his broad experience in leading worldwide logistics and a highly diverse workforce, and his insight into the application of advanced technology make General Myers a valuable addition to the Deere & Company board," said Robert W. Lane, chairman and chief executive officer.
 
he Colin Powell Chair of Character, Leadership and Ethics at National Defense University.
As recently announced, Myers will hold t
and will be the Foundation Professor of Military History and Leadership at Kansas State University
In March, Myers was elected to the board of directors at Northrop Grumman Corporation.
 
Myers previously served as vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff where he was chairman of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council, vice chairman of the Defense Acquisition Board, and a member of the National Security Council Deputies Committee and the Nuclear Weapons Council.
 
Myers was born in Kansas City, Missouri, and is a 1965 mechanical engineering graduate of Kansas State University. In addition to his studies at advanced military colleges, he holds a Masters Degree in Business Administration from Auburn University and attended the Program for Senior Executives in National and International Security at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University.
 
Deere & Company's board will now total 12 members, 11 of whom are independent. In addition to Myers, who will join the board's compensation and pension plan oversight committees, the independent board members include Crandall C. Bowles, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Springs Industries; Vance D. Coffman, Retired Chairman, Lockheed Martin Corporation; T. Kevin Dunnigan, Retired Chairman, Thomas & Betts Corporation; Dipak C. Jain, Dean, Kellogg School of Management,
Northwestern University; Arthur L. Kelly, Managing Partner, KEL Enterprises L.P.; Antonio Madero B., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, SANLUIS Corporacin S.A. de C.V.; Joachim Milberg, Chairman, Supervisory Board, Bayerische Motoren Werke (BMW) AG; Thomas H. Patrick, Chairman, New Vernon Capital, LLC; Aulana L. Peters, Retired Partner, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP; and John R. Walter, Chairman, Ashlin Management Company.
 
Deere & Company (NYSE:DE) is the world's leading manufacturer of agricultural and forestry equipment, a major manufacturer of construction equipment, and a leading supplier of equipment used in lawn, grounds and turf care. John Deere also manufactures and markets engines used in heavy equipment and provides worldwide financial services. Since it was founded in 1837, the company has extended its heritage of integrity, quality, commitment and innovation around the globe.
 


