FILE:DE/DE-8K-20070521115622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report: 
18 May 2007
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
D E E R E  &  C O M P A N Y
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                                   
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Charles O. Holliday, Jr. has been elected to the Deere & Company board of directors, effective May 30, 2007.  Mr. Holliday is chairman and chief executive officer of DuPont.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
2
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: May 18, 2007
3
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
Number and Description of Exhibit
 
 
4

Exhibt 99.01
NEWS RELEASE  May 18, 2007
For more information:
Ken Golden
Director, News and Information
Deere & Company
309-765-5678
 
Chad Holliday, DuPont Chairman and CEO, elected to Deere & Company Board of Directors
MOLINE, Illinois (May 18, 2007)  Deere & Company announced today its board of directors has elected Charles O. Holliday, Jr. to the board, effective May 30, 2007. Holliday is chairman and chief executive officer of DuPont, a company founded 205 years ago.
"Chad is a distinguished global business leader and John Deere is fortunate that he has agreed to join the Deere & Company board of directors," said Robert W. Lane, Deere & Company's chairman and chief executive officer.  "While guiding DuPont's extensive worldwide operations, Chad has nurtured the broader business community's understanding of the profit opportunities from sustainably serving society. His grasp of complex societal issues, emerging global trends, and promising business opportunities, including those rooted in agriculture around the world, will further strengthen the Deere board."
Holliday has served as DuPont's chief executive officer and chairman since 1998 and has an exemplary record of leadership roles in important global business organizations. He currently chairs the board of directors of Catalyst and the U.S. Council on Competitiveness. He is also past chairman of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the Business Council and the Society of Chemical Industry  American Section. Additionally, Holliday is a founding member of the International Business Council.
5
Holliday graduated from the University of Tennessee in 1970 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Industrial Engineering and joined DuPont the same year.
Deere & Company's board will now total 12 members, 11 of whom are independent. In addition to Holliday, the independent board members include Crandall C. Bowles, co-chairman and co-chief executive officer, Springs Global Participacoes S.A. and chairman of Springs Industries, Inc.; Vance D. Coffman, retired chairman, Lockheed Martin Corporation; T. Kevin Dunnigan, retired chairman, Thomas & Betts Corporation; Dipak C. Jain, dean, Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University; Arthur L. Kelly, managing partner, KEL Enterprises L.P.; Antonio Madero B., chairman and chief executive officer, SANLUIS Corporacin S.A. de C.V.; Joachim Milberg, chairman, Supervisory Board, Bayerische Motoren Werke (BMW) AG; Richard B. Myers, retired chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff; Thomas H. Patrick, chairman, New Vernon Capital, LLC; Aulana L. Peters, retired partner, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP.
John Deere (Deere & Company  NYSE: DE) is the world's leading provider of advanced products and services for agriculture and forestry and a major provider of advanced products and services for construction, lawn and turf care, landscaping and irrigation. John Deere also provides financial services worldwide and manufactures and markets engines used in heavy equipment. Since it was founded in 1837, the company has extended its heritage of integrity, quality, commitment and innovation around the globe.
 
6


