FILE:DE/DE-8K-20081029130947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
David B. Speer has been elected to the Deere & Company board of directors effective November 15, 2008.  Mr. Speer is chairman and chief executive officer of Illinois Tool Works Inc.  Mr. Speer will join the Board's Compensation Committee and Pension Plan Oversight Committee.
 
 
News Release
 
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 29, 2008
 
 
Number and Description of Exhibit
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 29, 2008
 
For more information:
 
Ken Golden
Director, Strategic Public Relations
Deere & Company
309-765-5678
 
DAVID B. SPEER, ITW CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, ELECTED TO DEERE & COMPANY BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
MOLINE, Illinois (October 29, 2008)  Deere & Company announced today that its board of directors has elected David B. Speer to the board, effective 15 November 2008. David Speer is the chairman and chief executive officer of Illinois Tool Works Inc.  a premier company that produces engineered fasteners and components, equipment and consumable systems, and specialty products. It employs nearly 60,000 people in 825 business units, and is based in Glenview, Illinois, with operations in 52 countries.
 
"As leader of a global enterprise with significant manufacturing capabilities, David has the breadth of experience to bring valuable insight and guidance to Deere as it continues to grow all across the world," said Robert W. Lane, chairman and chief executive officer of Deere & Company. "John Deere is fortunate that David has agreed to join the Deere & Company Board of Directors."
 
Speer has a noteworthy record of management responsibility and executive leadership at ITW, where he was named chairman in May 2006 after being elected chief executive officer in August 2005. He had served as president since August 2004.
 
Speer is a member of the Board of Directors of Rockwell Automation and the Board of Trustees of Northwestern University. He is on the Boards of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, the Executives' Club of Chicago, Rush Medical Center, the Museum of Science and Industry, the Economic Club of Chicago and Junior Achievement of Chicago. He is also a member of The Commercial Club and The Business Council.
 
David Speer joined ITW in 1978 after earning his Masters in Business Administration from The Kellogg School of Business, Northwestern University in 1977. He previously had
graduated from Iowa State University in 1973 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Industrial Engineering.
 
The Deere Board has elected Speer to serve on its compensation and pension plan oversight committees. The Deere & Company Board of Directors will now total 14 members, 13 of whom are independent with the addition of David Speer. They include:
 
Crandall C. Bowles, Chairman, Springs Industries, Inc.;
                 
 
Vance D. Coffman, Retired Chairman, Lockheed Martin Corporation;
                 
 
T. Kevin Dunnigan, Retired Chairman, Thomas & Betts Corporation;
                 
 
Chad Holliday, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, DuPont;
                 
 
Dipak C. Jain, Dean, Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University;
                 
 
Clayton M. Jones, Chairman, President and CEO, Rockwell Collins;
                 
 
Arthur L. Kelly, Managing Partner, KEL Enterprises L.P.;
                 
 
Antonio Madero B., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, SANLUIS Corporacin S.A. de C.V.;
                 
 
Joachim Milberg, Chairman, Supervisory Board, Bayerische Motoren Werke (BMW) AG;
                 
 
Richard B. Myers, Retired Chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff;
                 
 
Thomas H. Patrick, Chairman, New Vernon Capital, LLC; and
                 
 
Aulana L. Peters, Retired Partner, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP.
                 
 
John Deere (Deere & Company - NYSE: DE) is the world's leading provider of advanced products and services for agriculture and forestry and a major provider of advanced products and services for construction, lawn and turf care, landscaping and irrigation. John Deere also provides financial services worldwide and manufactures and markets engines used in heavy equipment. Since it was founded in 1837, the company has extended its heritage of integrity, quality, commitment and innovation around the globe.
 


