FILE:DE/DE-8K-20090819090129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Items 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Other Events.
and 8.01
                
 
The following consists of Deere & Company's press release dated August 19, 2009 concerning Third Quarter of fiscal 2009 financial results and supplemental financial information filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01
               
 
Exhibits
(d)
     
 
(99.1)           Press release and supplemental financial information (Filed herewith)
 
Items 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Regulation FD Disclosure (Furnished herewith)
and 7.01
                
 
The attached schedules of Other Financial Information (Exhibit 99.2) and Third Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call information (Exhibit 99.3) are furnished under Form 8-K Items 2.02 and 7.01. The information is not filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not deemed incorporated by reference by any general statements incorporating by reference this report or future filings into any filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent Deere & Company specifically incorporates the information by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Dated:  August 19, 2009
 
Number and Description of Exhibit
 

 
 
FOR RELEASE  August 19, 2009
 
For information, call:
Ken Golden
Director, Strategic Public Relations
309-765-5678
 
DEERE REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER EARNINGS OF $420 MILLION
 
Company has profitable quarter in face of global economic slowdown.
     
 
Operations benefit from solid execution of plans to curb costs and inventories.
     
 
Deere positioned to capitalize on positive long-term trends.
     
 
MOLINE, Illinois (August 19, 2009)  Deere & Company today announced worldwide net income of $420.0 million, or $0.99 per share, for the third quarter ended July 31, compared with $575.2 million, or $1.32 per share, for the same period last year. For the first nine months of the year, net income was $1.096 billion, or $2.59 per share, compared with $1.708 billion, or $3.89 per share, last year.
 
Worldwide net sales and revenues declined 24 percent, to $5.885 billion, for the third quarter and were down 15 percent to $17.778 billion for nine months compared with a year ago. Net sales of the equipment operations were $5.283 billion for the quarter and $16.030 billion for nine months, compared with $7.070 billion and $19.070 billion last year.
 
"John Deere has completed a solidly profitable quarter in the face of persistent global economic pressure and made further progress advancing its competitive position throughout the world," said Samuel R. Allen, president and chief executive officer. "We have seen continued benefit from strength in the U.S. market for large farm machinery and from our efforts to keep a tight rein on costs and inventories. Deere's construction and forestry business, as an example, is successfully executing carefully designed plans to adjust expenses and asset levels in response to the severe decline in its markets," Allen said.
 
Summary of Operations
 
Net sales of the worldwide equipment operations decreased 25 percent for the quarter and 16 percent for nine months. Sales included an unfavorable currency-translation effect of 4 percent for the quarter and 5 percent for nine months and price increases of 6 percent for both periods. Equipment net sales in the United States and Canada declined 16 percent for the quarter and 9
 
percent year to date. Net sales outside the United States and Canada were down 37 percent for the quarter and 26 percent for nine months, with an unfavorable currency-translation effect of 7 percent for the quarter and 11 percent year to date.
 
Deere's equipment operations reported operating profit of $452 million for the quarter and $1.387 billion for nine months, compared with $818 million and $2.377 billion last year. The deterioration in both periods primarily was due to lower shipment and production volumes and the unfavorable effects of foreign exchange, partially offset by improved price realization and lower selling, administrative and general expenses. In addition, higher raw-material costs affected nine-month results.
 
Equipment operations reported net income of $319 million for the quarter and $879 million for nine months, compared with $479 million and $1.408 billion last year. The same operating factors mentioned above, in addition to a lower current-year effective tax rate, had an impact on both quarterly and nine-month results.
 
The company's focus on asset management continued to support its performance. Trade receivables and inventories at the end of the quarter were $6.250 billion, or 28 percent of previous 12-month sales, compared with $7.457 billion, or 30 percent of sales, a year ago.
 
Financial services reported net income of $102.1 million for the quarter and $217.8 million for nine months compared with $83.4 million and $267.5 million last year. Results were higher for the quarter largely due to benefits from investment tax credits for wind energy projects, foreign exchange gains and lower selling, administrative and general expenses. Partially offsetting these factors were a higher provision for credit losses and narrower financing spreads. Nine-month net income was lower primarily due to a higher provision for credit losses, narrower financing spreads and lower commissions from crop insurance, partially offset by benefits from investment tax credits and lower selling, administrative and general expenses.
 
Company Outlook & Summary
 
Company equipment sales are projected to be down about 21 percent for the full year and down about 34 percent for the fourth quarter, including a negative currency-translation impact of about 4 percent for the year and about 1 percent for the quarter. Deere's net income is anticipated to be approximately $1.1 billion for 2009, despite the largest expected single-year sales decline in at least 50 years. Affecting fourth quarter results will be significant production cutbacks that are being made in line with retail demand. The quarter also will include costs for rationalizing operations, as previously announced.
 
e're confident our ability to adjust production in
In spite of present economic conditions, the company believes underlying trends remain quite promising for its businesses.  "John Deere is well-positioned to respond to the world's growing need for food, shelter, infrastructure and energy with a wide range of advanced equipment and services," Allen said. "Further, w
 
response to dynamic markets will help us come through today's challenging times in a strong condition, ready to seize future opportunities for growth."
 
 
Equipment Division Performance
 
Sales declined 21 percent for the quarter and 9 percent for nine months largely due to lower shipment volumes and the unfavorable effects of currency translation, partially offset by improved price realization. Operating profit was $480 million for the quarter and $1.472 billion year to date, compared with $725 million and $2.001 billion for the respective periods last year. Operating profit was lower in both periods primarily due to lower shipment and production volumes and unfavorable impacts of foreign exchange, partially offset by improved price realization and lower selling, administrative and general expenses. Higher raw-material costs also had an unfavorable impact on the nine-month results.
Agriculture & Turf.
 
Construction and forestry sales declined 47 percent for the quarter and 45 percent for nine months, resulting in operating losses of $28 million for the quarter and $85 million year to date. Last year the division had operating profit of $93 million and $376 million for the same periods. The profit decreases for both periods were primarily due to significantly lower shipment and production volumes, partially offset by lower selling, administrative and general expenses and improved price realization. Higher raw-material costs also had an unfavorable impact on year-to-date results.
Construction & Forestry.
 
Market Conditions & Outlook
 
Full-year sales of the agriculture and turf division are forecast to decrease by about 15 percent, including a negative currency-translation impact of about 5 percent. At the beginning of the third quarter of 2009, the company combined the agricultural equipment and commercial and consumer equipment businesses. Voluntary employee separations related to the new organizational structure resulted in pretax charges of $16 million in the third quarter and will be approximately $85 million in the fourth quarter. Annual savings from the separation program are expected to be approximately $50 million to $60 million in 2010.
Agriculture & Turf.
 
On an industry basis, farm machinery sales in the United States and Canada are forecast to be down slightly for the year, though sales of large tractors, combines, sprayers and seeding equipment are expected to be higher. In other parts of the world, industry farm-machinery sales in Western Europe are forecast to decline 10 to 15 percent for the year while markets in Central Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States are expected to be sharply lower. In South
 
America, industry sales are projected to decrease by 20 to 30 percent for the year. Industry sales of turf equipment and compact utility tractors in the United States and Canada are expected to be down about 20 percent.
 
Deere's worldwide sales of construction and forestry equipment are forecast to decline by about 47 percent for the year. The decline is attributable to a slumping global economy, historically low levels of U.S. construction activity, and further deterioration in forestry markets worldwide.
Construction & Forestry.
 
Full-year 2009 net income for Deere's credit operations is forecast to be approximately $270 million. The forecast decrease from 2008 primarily is due to narrower financing spreads, a higher provision for credit losses and lower commissions from crop insurance, partially offset by benefits from investment tax credits related to wind energy projects.
Credit.
 
John Deere Capital Corporation
 
The following is disclosed on behalf of the company's credit subsidiary, John Deere Capital Corporation (JDCC), in connection with the disclosure requirements applicable to its periodic issuance of debt securities in the public market.
 
JDCC's net income was $59.1 million for the third quarter and $128.1 million year to date, compared with net income of $70.1 million and $224.6 million for the respective periods last year. Results were lower for the quarter due to a higher provision for credit losses and narrower financing spreads, partially offset by foreign exchange gains and lower selling, administrative and general expenses. Net income was lower for the nine months primarily due to narrower financing spreads, a higher provision for credit losses and lower commissions from crop insurance, partially offset by lower selling, administrative and general expenses.
 
Net receivables and leases financed by JDCC were $19.336 billion at July 31, 2009, compared with $19.289 billion last year. Net receivables and leases administered, which include receivables administered but not owned, totaled $19.482 billion at July 31, 2009, compared with $19.454 billion a year ago.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
  Statements under "Company Outlook and Summary," "Market Conditions & Outlook," and other statements herein that relate to future operating periods are subject to important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.  Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of the
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
Company's businesses.
 
Forward-looking statements involve certain factors that are subject to change, including for the Company's agricultural equipment the many interrelated factors that affect farmers' confidence.  These factors include worldwide economic conditions, demand for agricultural products, world grain stocks, weather conditions, soil conditions, harvest yields, prices for commodities and livestock, crop and livestock production expenses, availability of transport for crops, the growth of non-food uses for some crops (including ethanol and biodiesel production), real estate values, available acreage for farming, the land ownership policies of various governments, changes in government farm programs and policies (including those in the U.S. and Brazil), international reaction to such programs, global trade agreements, animal diseases and their effects on poultry and beef consumption and prices (including avian flu and bovine spongiform encephalopathy, commonly known as "mad cow" disease), crop pests and diseases (including Asian rust), and the level of farm product exports (including concerns about genetically modified organisms).
 
Factors affecting the outlook for the Company's turf and utility equipment include general economic conditions, consumer confidence, weather conditions, customer profitability, consumer borrowing patterns, consumer purchasing preferences, housing starts, infrastructure investment, spending by municipalities and golf courses, and consumable input costs.
 
General economic conditions, consumer spending patterns, real estate and housing prices, the number of housing starts and interest rates are especially important to sales of the Company's construction and forestry equipment.  The levels of public and non-residential construction also impact the results of the Company's construction and forestry segment.  Prices for pulp, lumber and structural panels are important to sales of forestry equipment.
 
All of the Company's businesses and its reported results are affected by general economic conditions in, and the political and social stability of, the global markets in which the Company operates, especially material changes in economic activity in these markets; customer confidence in the general economic conditions; foreign currency exchange rates, especially fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar, interest rates and inflation and deflation rates; capital market disruptions; significant changes in capital market liquidity, access to capital and associated funding costs; delays or disruptions in the Company's supply chain due to weather, natural disasters or financial hardship or the loss of liquidity by suppliers (including common suppliers with the automotive industry); changes in and the impact of governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies and governmental programs in particular jurisdictions or for the benefit of certain sectors; actions by rating agencies; customer access to capital for purchases of the Company's products and borrowing and repayment practices, the number and size of customer loan delinquencies and defaults, and the housing market credit crises; changes in the market values of investment assets; production, design and technological difficulties, including
 
capacity and supply constraints and prices; the availability and prices of strategically sourced materials, components and whole goods; start-up of new plants and new products; the success of new product initiatives and customer acceptance of new products; oil and energy prices and supplies; the availability and cost of freight; trade, monetary and fiscal policies of various countries (including protectionist policies that disrupt international commerce); wars and other international conflicts and the threat thereof; actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board and other central banks; actions by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission; actions by environmental, health and safety regulatory agencies, including those related to engine emissions (in particular Tier 4 emission requirements), noise and the risk of climate change; actions by other regulatory bodies; actions of competitors in the various industries in which the Company competes, particularly price discounting; dealer practices especially as to levels of new and used field inventories; labor relations and regulations; changes to accounting standards; changes in tax rates and regulations; the effects of, or response to, terrorism; and changes in laws and regulations affecting the sectors in which the Company operates.  The spread of major epidemics (including H1N1 and other influenzas, SARS, fevers and other viruses) also could affect Company results.  Changes in weather patterns could impact customer operations and Company results.  Company results are also affected by changes in the level of employee retirement benefits, changes in market values of investment assets and the level of interest rates, which impact retirement benefit costs, and significant changes in health care costs.  Other factors that could affect results are acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, the integration of new businesses, the implementation of organizational changes such as combining of the agricultural and commercial and consumer equipment segments, changes in Company declared dividends and common stock issuances and repurchases.
 
With respect to the recent global economic downturn, changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase the availability of credit may not be effective and could have a material impact on the Company's customers and markets.  Significant changes in market liquidity conditions could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce the Company's earnings and cash flows.  The Company's investment management operations could be impaired by changes in the equity and bond markets, which would negatively affect earnings.
 
General economic conditions can affect the demand for the Company's equipment as well. Current negative economic conditions and outlook have dampened demand for certain equipment.  Furthermore, governmental programs providing assistance to certain industries or sectors could negatively impact the Company's competitive position.
 
The recent economic downturn and market volatility have adversely affected the financial industry in which John Deere Capital Corporation and other credit subsidiaries (Credit) operate.  Credit's liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital to meet future
 
cash flow requirements and fund operations and the costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities and to fund purchases of the Company's products.  If market disruption and volatility continue or worsen or access to governmental liquidity programs decreases, funding could be unavailable or insufficient.  Additionally, under current market conditions customer confidence levels may result in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact Credit's write-offs and provisions for credit losses.
 
The Company's outlook is based upon assumptions relating to the factors described above, which are sometimes based upon estimates and data prepared by government agencies.  Such estimates and data are often revised.  The Company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise its outlook, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise.  Further information concerning the Company and its businesses, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is included in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K (including the factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors) and other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Third Quarter 2009 Press Release
 
 
 
*         Includes equipment operations outside the U.S. and Canada as follows:
 
 
 
DEERE & COMPANY STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME For the Three Months Ended July 31, 2009 and 2008 (In millions of dollars and shares except per share amounts) Unaudited
 
 
 
See Condensed Notes to Interim Financial Statements.
 
DEERE & COMPANY STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME For the Nine Months Ended July 31, 2009 and 2008 (In millions of dollars and shares except per share amounts) Unaudited
 
 
See Condensed Notes to Interim Financial Statements.
 
DEERE & COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (In millions of dollars) Unaudited
 
 
See Condensed Notes to Interim Financial Statements.
 
DEERE & COMPANY STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS For the Nine Months Ended July 31, 2009 and 2008 (In millions of dollars) Unaudited
 
 
See Condensed Notes to Interim Financial Statements.
 
 
(1)
             
Dividends declared and paid on a per share basis were as follows:
 
 
*
     
Due to the dividend payment dates, a quarterly dividend was not included in the third quarter of 2009.  Two quarterly dividends of $.28 per share were included in the second quarter of 2009 and one quarterly dividend of $.28 per share was included in the first quarter of 2009.
 
(2)
             
The calculation of basic net income per share is based on the average number of shares outstanding.  The calculation of diluted net income per share recognizes the dilutive effect of the assumed exercise of stock options.
 
(3)
             
Comprehensive income, which includes all changes in the Company's equity during the period except transactions with stockholders, was as follows in millions of dollars:
 
 
(4)
             
The consolidated financial statements represent the consolidation of all Deere & Company's subsidiaries.  In the supplemental consolidating data in Note 5 to the financial statements, "Equipment Operations" include the Company's agriculture and turf operations and construction and forestry operations, with Financial Services reflected on the equity basis.  The supplemental "Financial Services" data in Note 5 include primarily Deere & Company's credit operations.
 
(5) SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA STATEMENT OF INCOME For the Three Months Ended July 31, 2009 and 2008
 
*   Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.
 
The supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes.  Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements.
 
SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA (Continued) STATEMENT OF INCOME For the Nine Months Ended July 31, 2009 and 2008
 
*  Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.
 
The supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes.  Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements.
 
SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA (Continued)
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
 
* Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.
 
The supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes.  Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements.
 
SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA (Continued)
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the Nine Months Ended July 31, 2009 and 2008
 
* Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.
 
The supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes.  Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements.

Exhibit 99.2
 

Exhibit 99.3
 


