FILE:DE/DE-8K-20090629170828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
On June 1, 2009, the Company issued the attached release regarding executive officer appointments.  In connection with the release, the Company makes the following additional disclosures regarding prior business experience and compensation changes:
 
Business Experience
:
 
Prior to serving as senior vice president and chief financial officer, Mr. Mack served as Company vice president and treasurer.
 
Compensation Changes:
 
In connection with the new assignments, the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee") approved increases in Mr. Allen's annual base salary effective June 1, 2009 from $628,296 to $800,000 and effective August 1, 2009, when Mr. Allen becomes Chief Executive Officer, to $1,200,000.
 
Mr. Allen continues to participate in the Company's annual and mid-term incentive bonus plans that payout based on the Company's operating return on operating assets and shareholder value added during the performance periods.  Awards under the annual bonus plan are based in part on base salaries during the performance period.  Considering the new base salaries, the target award under the annual bonus plan for Mr. Allen for the fiscal 2009 performance period will increase to $819,864 from $534,052.  Mr. Allen's target award under the mid-term bonus plan for the performance period ending in fiscal 2009, which is based on his salary grade in September 2008, remains unchanged at $453,151.
 
Actual bonuses likely will differ due to actual Company performance during the performance periods, any additional changes in salary, the number of participants sharing in the mid-term bonus pool, and any plan and award changes approved by the Committee.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements are Exhibits
 
(d)
        
Exhibits
 
(99.1) News Release
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Number and Description of Exhibit
 
(99.1)
                  
News Release of June 1, 2009

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
FOR RELEASE  June 1, 2009
 
For information, call:
Ken Golden
Director, Strategic Public Relations
309-765-5678
 
DEERE'S BOARD OF DIRECTORS ELECTS SAMUEL R. ALLEN
PRESIDENT, COO AND BOARD MEMBER
 
                 
Samuel R. Allen to become Chief Executive Officer effective 1 August 2009.
                 
Robert W. Lane to continue as Chairman during transition.
                 
Board follows systematic process to select company's 9
th
 leader.
 
MOLINE, Illinois (June 1, 2009)  Deere & Company today announced that its board of directors has elected Samuel R. Allen, 55, president, chief operating officer, and a member of the board of directors effective 1 June, and chief executive officer effective 1 August. Robert W. Lane, 59, chairman and CEO, will serve as chairman of the board until Allen's expected succession as chairman.
 
"The Deere Board has completed an 18-month systematic process to choose Deere's ninth chief executive officer in its 172-year history," Lane said. "The board recognizes, as I do, that Sam is a superb, smart, ethical executive, a wise and uncommonly capable leader, and someone with the proven experience and ability to effectively lead John Deere in growing a great, sustainable, global business."
 
A 34-year veteran of John Deere, Allen has been president of the Worldwide Construction & Forestry Division since 2005 and has been responsible for the global operations of the Deere Power System Group since 2003. Allen has served since 2001 as a senior officer of the company with early senior leadership responsibilities in human resources and industrial relations and the oversight of John Deere Credit's global operations.
 
In addition, Allen has been responsible for Deere's intelligent mobile equipment technologies and for Deere's advanced technology and innovation since 2007. Previously in his career, he worked in positions of increasing responsibility in the Consumer Products Division, Worldwide Construction & Forestry Division, Deere Power Systems Group, and the Worldwide Agricultural Division, including managing operations in Latin America, East Asia, and Australia.
 
"I am honored to have been selected by the board of directors to follow in the footsteps of previous chief executives who have led Deere with great distinction," Allen said. "We have significant challenges but exciting global opportunities. I look forward to working with all of the uncommonly-committed employees of John Deere to distinctively serve our global customers in ways that are highly rewarding to our shareholders."
 
Other senior executive moves include:
                 
Michael J. Mack, Jr., who has served as senior vice president and chief financial officer since 2006, to the position of president, Worldwide Construction & Forestry Division;
                 
James M. Field, who until recently served as president of the Worldwide Commercial & Consumer Division and before that as vice president and comptroller of Deere & Company, to the position of senior vice president and chief financial officer; and
                 
Jean Gilles, who has served as senior vice president of Deere Power Systems Group, to the senior officer position of senior vice president, Deere Power Systems Group, Deere Intelligent Mobile Equipment Technologies, and Advanced Technology and Innovation.
 
John Deere (Deere & Company - NYSE: DE) is a world leader in providing advanced products and services for agriculture, forestry, construction, lawn and turf care, landscaping and irrigation. John Deere also provides financial services worldwide and manufactures and markets engines used in heavy equipment. Since it was founded in 1837, the company has extended its heritage of integrity, quality, commitment and innovation around the globe.


