FILE:DE/DE-8K-20100818090236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Items 2.02
and 8.01            Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Other Events.
 
The following consists of Deere & Company's press release dated August 18, 2010 concerning Third Quarter of fiscal 2010 financial results and supplemental financial information filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01           Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)     Exhibits
 
(99.1)       Press release and supplemental financial information (Filed herewith)
 
Items 2.02
and 7.01            Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Regulation FD Disclosure (Furnished herewith)
 
The attached schedules of Other Financial Information (Exhibit 99.2) and Third Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call Information (Exhibit 99.3) are furnished under Form 8-K Items 2.02 and 7.01. The information is not filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not deemed incorporated by reference by any general statements incorporating by reference this report or future filings into any filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent Deere & Company specifically incorporates the information by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Number and Description of Exhibit
 

 
FOR RELEASE  August 18, 2010
 
Contact:
Ken Golden
Director, Strategic Public Relations
309-765-5678
 
 
Deere Reports Third-Quarter Earnings of $617 Million
 
                
Income climbs 47 percent on 16 percent gain in net sales and revenues.
 
                
Disciplined execution contributes to record quarter despite weakness in certain markets.
 
                
Results aided by strong demand for large farm machinery and improvement in construction and forestry.
 
 
MOLINE, Illinois (August 18, 2010)  Net income attributable to Deere & Company was $617.0 million, or $1.44 per share, for the third quarter ended July 31, compared with $420.0 million, or $0.99 per share, for the same period last year.
For the first nine months of the year, net income attributable to Deere & Company was $1.408 billion, or $3.28 per share, compared with $1.096 billion, or $2.59 per share, last year.
Worldwide net sales and revenues increased 16 percent, to $6.837 billion, for the third quarter and were up 6 percent, to $18.803 billion, for nine months. Net sales of the equipment operations were $6.224 billion for the quarter and $17.009 billion for nine months, compared with $5.283 billion and $16.030 billion for the corresponding periods last year.
"John Deere's third-quarter performance reflected the disciplined execution of our business plans and occurred despite continued weakness in certain key sectors," said Samuel R. Allen, chairman and chief executive officer. "While we have benefited from positive conditions in the U.S. farm sector, particularly in terms of demand for large equipment, European markets are down sharply. Demand for construction and forestry equipment is improved from last year but still remains far below normal levels. Nevertheless, the company has continued to extend its competitive position as a result of our focus on serving customers with advanced new products while keeping a tight rein on costs and assets."
 
 
 
 
Summary of Operations
 
Net sales of the worldwide equipment operations increased 18 percent for the quarter and were up 6 percent for nine months compared with a year ago. Sales included a favorable currency-translation effect of 3 percent for nine months and price increases of 2 percent for both periods. Equipment net sales in the United States and Canada increased 19 percent for the quarter and 6 percent year to date. Outside the U.S. and Canada, net sales were up 16 percent for the quarter and 7 percent for nine months. Currency translation for sales outside the U.S. and Canada had an unfavorable effect of 2 percent in the quarter and a favorable impact of 6 percent year to date.
Deere's equipment operations reported operating profit of $890 million for the quarter and $2.193 billion for nine months, compared with $452 million and $1.387 billion last year.
Benefiting the quarter's results were higher production and shipment volumes and improved price realization, partially offset by increased postretirement benefit costs. Nine-month results reflected higher production and shipment volumes, improved price realization, lower raw-material costs and the favorable effects of foreign exchange, partially offset by increased postretirement benefit costs.
Net income of the company's equipment operations, including non-controlling interests, was $512 million for the quarter and $1.135 billion for nine months, compared with $319 million and $878 million for the respective periods last year. The same operating factors noted above, along with a higher effective tax rate, affected both quarterly and nine-month results.
Financial services net income was $102.1 million for the quarter and $274.1 million for nine months compared with $102.1 million and $217.8 million last year. Results were unchanged for the quarter and higher for nine months primarily due to improved financing spreads and a lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower tax credits related to wind energy projects.
 
Company Outlook & Summary
 
Company equipment sales are projected to be up about 12 percent for fiscal 2010 and up about 32 percent for the fourth quarter compared with the same periods a year
 
 
 
ago. Included are a favorable currency-translation impact of about 2 percent for the year and an unfavorable impact of about 1 percent for the quarter. For the fourth quarter, net income attributable to Deere & Company is anticipated to be approximately $375 million.
According to Allen, Deere's consistent investment in advanced new products and expanded global capacity is sustaining current performance and puts the company on a solid footing for the future. "John Deere remains well-positioned to help meet the world's growing need for agricultural commodities, shelter and infrastructure," Allen said. "In our view, these developments hold exciting potential and should strongly support our efforts to deliver value for customers and investors well into the future."
 
Equipment Division Performance
 
Agriculture & Turf.
S
ales increased 12 percent for the quarter largely due to higher shipment volumes and improved price realization. Sales were up 3 percent for the nine months primarily due to the favorable effects of currency translation and improved price realization, partially offset by lower shipment volumes.
Operating profit was $824 million for the quarter and $2.128 billion year to date, compared with $480 million and $1.472 billion last year. For the quarter, operating profit moved up primarily due to the impact of higher shipment and production volumes and improved price realization, partially offset by increased postretirement benefit costs. Nine-month operating profit was higher largely due to improved price realization, lower raw-material costs, favorable foreign-exchange effects and the impact of higher production volumes, partially offset by increased postretirement benefit costs.
 
Construction & Forestry.
Construction and forestry sales rose 59 percent for the quarter and were up 29 percent for nine months mainly due to higher shipment volumes. The division had operating profit of $66 million for the quarter and $65 million for nine months, compared with last year's operating losses of $28 million in the quarter and $85 million for nine months. The improvement in both periods primarily was due to higher shipment and production volumes, partially offset by increased postretirement benefit costs.
 
 
 
Market Conditions & Outlook
 
Agriculture & Turf.
Worldwide sales of the company's agriculture and turf division are forecast to increase by about 8 percent for full-year 2010, with a favorable currency-translation impact of about 2 percent.
With support from healthy farm cash receipts, solid commodity prices and low interest rates, industry farm-machinery sales in the United States and Canada are forecast to be up 5 to 10 percent for the year with much of the strength concentrated in larger equipment. In other parts of the world, industry sales in Western Europe are now forecast to decline 15 to 20 percent due to general weakness in the livestock and dairy sectors. High levels of used equipment, especially harvesting machinery, also are weighing on Western European markets. Sales in Central Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States are expected to remain under pressure due to challenging economic conditions. Drought has affected the region as well, particularly in Russia and Kazakhstan.
In South America, industry sales are projected to increase by 25 to 30 percent mainly due to improvement in the key Brazilian and Argentinean markets. Conditions in Brazil are being helped by favorable soybean and sugarcane prices and by attractive government-supported financing. The farm economy in Argentina is benefiting from commodity prices and more-normal weather conditions.
Industry sales of turf and utility equipment in the United States and Canada are expected to be up 10 to 15 percent for the year.
 
Construction & Forestry.
Deere's worldwide sales of construction and forestry equipment are forecast to increase by about 35 percent for full-year 2010. The increase reflects market conditions that are somewhat improved in relation to last year's severely depressed environment, as well as the division's focus on aligning factory production with demand from retail customers. Sales to independent rental companies have rebounded sharply from last year's extremely weak levels. In addition, global forestry markets are being aided by higher worldwide economic activity.
 
Credit.
Full-year 2010 net income attributable to Deere & Company for the credit operations is forecast to be approximately $325 million. The forecast increase from 2009
 
 
 
is primarily due to more favorable financing spreads and a lower provision for credit losses.
 
John Deere Capital Corporation
 
The following is disclosed on behalf of the company's credit subsidiary, John Deere Capital Corporation (JDCC), in connection with the disclosure requirements applicable to its periodic issuance of debt securities in the public market.
Net income attributable to John Deere Capital Corporation was $89.4 million for the third quarter and $222.7 million year to date, compared with $59.1 million and $128.1 million for the respective periods last year. Results were higher for both periods primarily due to improved financing spreads and a lower provision for credit losses.
Net receivables and leases financed by JDCC were $20.307 billion at July 31, 2010, compared with $19.336 billion last year.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:  Statements under "Company Outlook & Summary," "Market Conditions & Outlook," and other forward-looking statements herein that relate to future events, expectations and operating periods involve certain factors that are subject to change, and important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.  Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of the company's businesses.
The company's agricultural equipment business is subject to a number of uncertainties including the many interrelated factors that affect farmers' confidence.  These factors include worldwide economic conditions, demand for agricultural products, world grain stocks, weather conditions (including its effects on timely planting and harvesting, and the effects of the drought and fires in Russia), soil conditions, harvest yields, prices for commodities and livestock, crop and livestock production expenses, availability of transport for crops, the growth of non-food uses for some crops (including ethanol and biodiesel production), real estate values, available acreage for farming, the land ownership policies of various governments, changes in government farm programs and policies (including those in the U.S., Russia, and Brazil), international reaction to
 
 
such programs, global trade agreements, animal diseases and their effects on poultry and beef consumption and prices, crop pests and diseases, and the level of farm product exports (including concerns about genetically modified organisms).
Factors affecting the outlook for the company's turf and utility equipment include general economic conditions, consumer confidence, weather conditions, customer profitability, consumer borrowing patterns, consumer purchasing preferences, housing starts, infrastructure investment, spending by municipalities and golf courses, and consumable input costs.
General economic conditions, consumer spending patterns, real estate and housing prices, the number of housing starts and interest rates are especially important to sales of the company's construction and forestry equipment.  The levels of public and non-residential construction also impact the results of the company's construction and forestry segment.  Prices for pulp, paper, lumber and structural panels are important to sales of forestry equipment.
All of the company's businesses and its reported results are affected by general economic conditions in the global markets in which the company operates, especially material changes in economic activity in these markets; customer confidence in general economic conditions; foreign currency exchange rates, especially fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; interest rates; and inflation and deflation rates.  General economic conditions can affect demand for the company's equipment as well.  The current negative economic conditions and outlook in certain sectors have dampened demand for certain equipment.
Customer and company operations and results could be affected by changes in weather patterns; the political and social stability of the global markets in which the company operates; the effects of, or response to, terrorism and security threats (including those in Mexico); wars and other conflicts and the threat thereof; and the spread of major epidemics (including H1N1 and other influenzas).
Significant changes in market liquidity conditions could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce the company's earnings and cash flows.  Market conditions could also negatively impact customer access to capital for purchases of the company's products; borrowing and repayment practices; and the number and size of customer loan delinquencies and defaults.  A sovereign debt crisis, in Europe or elsewhere, could continue to negatively impact currencies, global financial
 
 
 
markets, social and political stability, funding sources and costs, customers, and company operations and results.  State debt crises also could negatively impact customers, suppliers, demand for equipment, and company operations and results.  The company's investment management activities could be impaired by changes in the equity and bond markets, which would negatively affect earnings.
Additional factors that could materially affect the company's operations and results include changes in and the impact of governmental trade, banking, monetary and fiscal policies, including financial regulatory reform, and governmental programs in particular jurisdictions or for the benefit of certain industries or sectors (including protectionist policies and trade and licensing restrictions that could disrupt international commerce); actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board and other central banks; actions by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other financial regulators; actions by environmental, health and safety regulatory agencies, including those related to engine emissions (in particular Interim Tier 4 and Final Tier 4 emission requirements), noise and the risk of climate change; changes in labor regulations; changes to accounting standards; changes in tax rates and regulations; and actions by other regulatory bodies including changes in laws and regulations affecting the sectors in which the company operates.
Other factors that could materially affect results include production, design and technological innovations and difficulties, including capacity and supply constraints and prices; the availability and prices of strategically sourced materials, components and whole goods; delays or disruptions in the company's supply chain due to weather, natural disasters or financial hardship or the loss of liquidity by suppliers; start-up of new plants and new products; the success of new product initiatives and customer acceptance of new products; changes in customer purchasing behavior in response to changes in equipment design to meet government regulations and other standards; oil and energy prices and supplies; the availability and cost of freight; actions of competitors in the various industries in which the company competes, particularly price discounting; dealer practices especially as to levels of new and used field inventories; labor relations; acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, the integration of new businesses; the implementation of organizational changes; changes in company declared dividends and common stock issuances and repurchases.
Company results are also affected by changes in the level of employee
 
 
 
retirement benefits, changes in market values of investment assets and the level of interest rates, which impact retirement benefit costs, and significant changes in health care costs including those which may result from governmental action.
The liquidity and ongoing profitability of John Deere Capital Corporation and other credit subsidiaries depend largely on timely access to capital to meet future cash flow requirements and fund operations and the costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities and to fund purchases of the company's products.  If market volatility and general economic conditions worsen, funding could be unavailable or insufficient.  Additionally, customer confidence levels may result in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact write-offs and provisions for credit losses.
The company's outlook is based upon assumptions relating to the factors described above, which are sometimes based upon estimates and data prepared by government agencies.  Such estimates and data are often revised.  The company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise its outlook, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise.  Further information concerning the company and its businesses, including factors that potentially could materially affect the company's financial results, is included in the company's other filings with the SEC (including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q).
 
 
 
 
 
DEERE & COMPANY STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME For the Three Months Ended July 31, 2010 and 2009 (In millions of dollars and shares except per share amounts) Unaudited
 
See Condensed Notes to Interim Financial Statements.
 
DEERE & COMPANY STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME For the Nine Months Ended July 31, 2010 and 2009 (In millions of dollars and shares except per share amounts) Unaudited
 
See Condensed Notes to Interim Financial Statements.
 
DEERE & COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (In millions of dollars) Unaudited
 
See Condensed Notes to Interim Financial Statements.
 
DEERE & COMPANY STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS For the Nine Months Ended July 31, 2010 and 2009 (In millions of dollars) Unaudited
 
See Condensed Notes to Interim Financial Statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(6) SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA STATEMENT OF INCOME For the Three Months Ended July 31, 2010 and 2009
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA (Continued) STATEMENT OF INCOME For the Nine Months Ended July 31, 2010 and 2009
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA (Continued)
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
 
* Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.
 
The supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes.  Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements.
 
SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA (Continued)
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the Nine Months Ended July 31, 2010 and 2009
 
 
* Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.
 
The supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes.  Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements.

 
 

 


