Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations. Net sales were $2,624 million for 2001, as compared to $2,749 million in 2000, a 5% decrease. The company experienced sales volume declines in the Tools segment due to softness in the commercial and industrial markets. Sales in 2001 were also negatively impacted (approximately 1%) from the translation of foreign currency as these currencies, primarily in Europe and Asia, continue to weaken against the U.S. dollar. Net sales in 2000 of $2,749 million were relatively flat as compared to 1999. Overall unit volume growth was completely offset by a reduction from the net effect of foreign currency translation, primarily in Europe. The company experienced sales volume growth in the Tools segment which was partially offset by the effects of weakening markets on the Doors segment. During 2001, the company recorded charges related to restructuring initiatives totaling $72 million ($18 incurred in the first quarter and $54 incurred in the fourth quarter). These costs consisted primarily of severance and asset impairments as the company continues to rationalize its cost structure and headcount. In addition, the company incurred certain credits and charges during 2001 that were determined by management to be special, or non recurring. In the first quarter, the company recorded a pre tax $29 million pension curtailment gain pertaining to its U.S. pension plan. Also in the first quarter, the company recorded $11 million of special charges related to several business repositionings. The repositionings were principally in the Tools segment and included continuing movement of production, permanent reduction of the overhead cost structure of its manufacturing system, and a series of initiatives at Mac Tools. In the third quarter, the company recorded a special charge of $5 million for severance costs incurred due to lower sales volumes and the continuing weakness in the industrial markets. Also in the third quarter, the company recorded $3 million in special credits for tax benefits. In the fourth quarter, the company recorded a special charge of $6 million for the disposition of inventories associated principally with discontinued manufacturing plants and SKUs. These special credits and charges were classified as period 11 income and expenses and were specifically classified within the Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) sales $1 million charge, (ii) cost of sales $12 million charge, (iii) SG&A expenses $8 million charge, (iv) interest net $0.2 million credit, (vi) Other net $28 million credit, and (vii) income taxes $3 million credit. The tax benefit of the restructuring charges and the special charges and credits amounted to $18 million. Financial results for the first six months of 1999 include transition expenses related to the companys restructuring initiatives. These costs were classified as period operating expenses within cost of sales ($20 million) and SG&A expenses ($35 million). They included the costs of moving production equipment, operating duplicate facilities while transferring production or distribution, consulting costs incurred in planning and implementing changes, recruiting and relocation of employees, the cost of transition employees involved in reorganizing the functions, and other types of costs that were incurred to facilitate restructuring. In addition, the company incurred costs to remediate its computer and related systems so that these systems would function properly with regard to date issues pertaining to the Year 2000 ("Y2K"). Results in 1999 also included a $20 million special charge in the fourth quarter as the company recorded higher estimates for certain loss provisions related to its mechanics tools businesses, principally MacDirect. The changes in estimates were based on the companys evolving experience in managing a direct mobile sales force in the automotive channel as well as inefficiencies in operating mechanisms and systems. Of the total $20 million special charges to income: $3 million was included in net sales, $11 million was included in cost of sales, $11 million was included in SG&A expenses and a credit of $5 million was included in Other net. Because the presence of restructuring charges and asset impairments, special credits and charges, restructuring related transition costs and non recurring Y2K remediation costs obscure the underlying trends within the companys business, the narrative regarding results of operations and business segments has been expanded to provide information as to the effects of these items on each financial statement category. In 2001, the company reported gross profit of $923 million, or 35.2% of net sales compared to $997 million or 36.3% of net sales in 2000. Included in gross profit for 2001 were $13 million of special charges taken in the first and fourth quarters related to business repositioning initiatives within the Tools segment and the disposition of inventories principally with discontinued manufacturing plants and SKUs. 12 Gross profit excluding these costs amounted to $936 million or 35.6% of net sales. The reduction in gross profit was a result of a shift in sales mix to retail and independent Mac sales channels versus industrial and direct Mac sales channels, partially offset by $80 million in productivity improvements. The company also experienced a decrease in cost of sales as a result of Last in, First Out (LIFO) reserve decreases as the company continues to reduce its cost of manufacturing and product costs by moving operations to low cost countries. These LIFO benefits were offset by increases in transportation costs and other inventory valuation reserves. In 2000, the company reported gross profit of $997 million, or 36.3% of net sales compared to 34.1% in 1999. Included in cost of sales for 1999 were $20 million of restructuring related transition costs, primarily for plant rationalization activities, and a portion of the mechanic tools special charges of $11 million. Gross profit in 1999, excluding these restructuring related and special charges was 35.3% of net sales. This significant improvement in gross profit was attributable to a combination of the companys improved ability to adjust employment and production plans as market demand fluctuated, improved cost controls in operations, the benefits of the companys restructuring programs, and continued progress on purchased material costs despite inflationary pressures. Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $594 million for 2001. Excluding the impact of $8 million in special charges ($3 million in the first quarter and $5 million in the third quarter) from business repositionings and additional severance charges apart from the restructuring initiatives, SG&A expenses amounted to $586 million, or 22.3% of net sales, as compared to $657 million for 2000, or 23.9% of net sales. Improvements in SG&A expenses are attributable to continued cost reductions achieved from changes made within the information management infrastructure, downward adjustments to employment levels in response to weak economic markets and the benefits attained from the companys restructuring and repositioning efforts. SG&A expenses were $657 million, or 23.9% of net sales, in 2000, as compared with $703 million, or 25.5% of net sales in 1999. Included in 1999 were $35 million of restructuring related transition and other non recurring costs and fourth quarter special charges related to mechanics tools of $11 million. Excluding these costs, SG&A expenses were $657 million in 1999, or 23.9% of net sales. The company made significant strides in the latter half of 2000 in its continual effort to reduce SG&A expenses. In the first half of 2000, the companys expenses were 6% higher than 1999 expenses for the same period, primarily the 13 result of increased distribution costs, information management infrastructure costs, and selling and administrative costs related to an increased number of sales representatives in the MacDirect program. However, in the second half of 2000, the companys expenses were 6% lower than 1999 expenses for the same period. Significant cost reductions were achieved pertaining to information management infrastructure, distribution, and administrative activities. In 2000, SG&A expenses were also favorably impacted as compared to 1999 as a result of an increase in income related to U.S. pension plans. Interest net was $26 million in 2001 as compared to $27 million in 2000. The decrease was a result of a decline in interest rates partially offset by an increase in weighted average debt levels in 2001. Interest net of $27 million in 2000 represented a slight decrease from $28 million in 1999 as debt levels were relatively consistent from year to year. Other net for 2001 represents income of $5 million. Excluding the gain recorded in conjunction with the companys curtailment of a U.S. pension plan of $29 million and a special charge of $2 million, both occurring in the first quarter of 2001, Other net amounted to expense of $22 million as compared to expense of $20 million in 2000. Other net was $20 million of expense in 2000 compared with $3 million in income for 1999. The company experienced lower gains from asset sales in 2000 and incurred a write off of the remaining interest in a previously disposed equipment rental business. Additionally, included in 1999 results were non recurring currency related gains of $11 million realized upon the termination of a cross currency financial instrument. The companys effective income tax rate for 2001 was 33% as compared to 34% for 2000 and 35% for 1999. The tax rate decreases reflect the continued benefit of organizational and operational changes during recent years that have generated a higher percentage of taxable income in countries with lower statutory rates, primarily in Europe, Israel, and the Far East. In addition, the company recorded special credits in the third quarter of 2001 for tax benefits of $3 million. These special credits were entirely offset by reduced tax benefits related to the restructuring charges and special charges. Business Segment Results. The Tools segment includes carpenters, mechanics, pneumatic and hydraulic tools, as well as tool sets. The Doors segment includes commercial and residential 14 doors, both automatic and manual, as well as closet doors and systems, home decor and door and consumer hardware. The information presented below excludes restructuring related transition costs for the first half of 1999. Segment eliminations are also excluded. Special fourth quarter 1999 charges related to Mechanics Tools of $25 million are reflected in Tools 1999 segment results. TOOLS (Millions of Dollars) 2001 2000 1999 Net sales $ 2,022 $ 2,143 $ 2,116 Operating profit $ 266 $ 286 $ 248 % of Net sales 13.2% 13.3% 11.7% Tools sales declined in 2001 as compared to 2000 by 6%. The sales decrease is primarily the result of unit volume declines from the Mac Tools repositioning in the first quarter of 2001 and weak industrial markets in North America. Also contributing to the sales decline was the effect of foreign currency translation as European currencies continued to decline against the US dollar. Despite lower sales, Tools operating profit as a percentage of net sales remained fairly static as compared to 2000. Excluding the net impact of special credits and charges allocated to the Tools segment totaling $15 million, operating profit totaled $281 million, or 13.9% of net sales. The improvements in operating margin, exclusive of special credits and charges, are primarily a result of SG&A reductions. Tools sales increased 1% in 2000 as compared to 1999 primarily from unit volume improvements. A 3% unit volume increase was almost completely offset by a 2% reduction in sales from the net effect of foreign currency translation, primarily due to weaker European currencies. Operating profit in 2000 for the tools segment was 13.3% of net sales compared to 1999, excluding special charges, of 12.9% of net sales. The increase from prior year is due to improved cost controls in operations, the benefits of the companys restructuring initiatives, and higher unit volumes. DOORS (Millions of Dollars) 2001 2000 1999 Net sales $ 602 $ 606 $ 636 Operating profit $ 64 $ 55 $ 42 % of Net sales 10.6% 9.1% 6.6% Doors sales were fairly static in 2001, representing a decrease of less than 1%. Net sales in the Doors segment reflect strong sales attributable to a new program launch with a significant customer, offset by certain sluggish market conditions in the Americas. Operating profit for Doors totaled 10.6% of net sales in 2001 as compared to 9.1% for 2000. Excluding the impact of 15 net special credits and charges allocated to the Doors segment totaling $5 million, operating profit totaled $69 million, or 11.4% of net sales. The improvements in operating profit, as a percentage of sales, is a result of improved productivity in the hardware business as the company shifted the production base to low cost countries, and the continued reduction of SG&A expenses. Net sales decreased by 5% in 2000 as compared to 1999, driven by declining hardware sales. This decline was partially offset by sales unit volume growth in automated door products. Operating profit in 2000 was 9.1% of net sales compared to operating profit of 6.6% for 1999. This increase is due primarily to realization of benefits associated with various productivity programs. Restructuring Activities. In 2001, the company undertook new initiatives to reduce its cost structure and executed several business repositionings intended to improve its competitiveness. These actions have or will result in the closure of thirteen facilities and a net employment reduction of approximately 2,100 production, selling and administrative people. As a result, the company recorded $18 million and $54 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges in the first and fourth quarters, respectively. Reserves were established for these initiatives consisting of $55 million for severance, $10 million for asset impairment charges and $7 million for other exit costs. These initiatives are expected to be substantially completed by the middle of 2003. In 1999, the company completed an evaluation of the remaining reserves that were established in 1997 for restructuring initiatives and determined that certain projects would be cancelled in order to reapply company resources to higher payback areas. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 1999, the company reversed $62 million of reserves established for such actions. Also in 1999, new projects were approved to achieve improved cost productivity. These new initiatives included facility closures and the related relocation of production, a reduction in work force in administrative functions and the outsourcing of non core activities as well as related asset impairments. The company recorded restructuring and asset impairments charges related to these new initiatives of $40 million, of which $30 million related to severance, $8 million related to asset impairment charges, and $2 million related to other exit costs. In 2000, the company completed the restructuring initiatives announced in 1997 and 1999 and will be incurring run off expenditures of $2 million over the next two years. To date the company has closed 66 facilities and reduced 16 employment by approximately 8,300 people related to all restructuring initiatives. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity, Sources and Uses of Capital. The companys primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and borrowings under various credit facilities. The company has historically generated strong cash flows from operations. In 2001, cash flows from operations were $222 million as compared to $236 million in 2000. The decline in operating cash flow was primarily the result of an increase in cash payments for restructuring in 2001 of $45 million as compared with $32 million in 2000, partially offset by an increase in non cash earnings. During 2000 the company generated $236 million in operating cash flow, versus $222 million in 1999. This increase resulted primarily from a significant reduction in restructuring related transition costs, which were offset partially by higher working capital requirements. In 2000, the companys receivables decreased by $14 million, inventory increased by $17 million, and accounts payable increased by $15 million. The receivables decrease was primarily attributed to the doors segment as volume declined. The increased inventory was in the tools segment. The accounts payable increase resulted from renegotiation of vendor terms and increased attention to payment management. The company made cash payments of $32 million for its restructuring activities, primarily severance. Capital expenditures in 2001 were $73 million as compared to $64 million in 2000 driven by an increase in costs for software development and acquisition as the company expands the infrastructure of its systems as well as the addition of "The Stanley Learning Center" (a major addition at World Headquarters for the training and development of employees). Capital expenditures were $64 million in 2000 down from $103 million in 1999. Investment in capital for 2000 was lower than traditional levels as a result of facility consolidations, continued outsourcing and the Stanley Production System. The company has unused short and long term credit arrangements with several banks to borrow up to $350 million at the lower of prime or money market rates. Of this amount, $100 million is long term. The company has short term lines of credit with numerous foreign banks aggregating $113 million, of which $96 million was available at December 29, 2001. Short term arrangements are reviewed annually for renewal. Of the long term and short term lines, $350 million is available to support the companys commercial paper program. On February 7, 2002 the 17 company refinanced $75 million of commercial paper through the issuance of 5 year notes payable at a fixed interest rate of 4.5%. This $75 million obligation is classified under long term debt at December 29, 2001. In addition to these lines of credit, the company maintains a facility designed for the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable for purposes of additional liquidity. As of December 29, 2001, the companys maximum available funds under this arrangement were $106 million, of which the company had utilized $22 million. The following summarizes the companys significant contractual obligations and commitments that impact its liquidity. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD (in millions) Total Less than 1 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years year Short Term Borrowings $177.3 $177.3 $ $ $ Long term Debt 316.9 120.1 108.1 3.4 85.3 Operating Leases 74.9 13.6 42.0 8.1 11.2 Other Commercial Commitments 61.6 12.9 17.6 15.4 15.7 TOTAL CONTRACTUAL CASH $630.7 $323.9 $167.7 $ 26.9 $ 112.2 OBLIGATIONS OTHER COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS AMOUNTS OF COMMITMENTS EXPIRATION PER PERIOD (in millions) Total Amounts Less than 1 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Committed year U.S. Lines of Credit $350.0 $250.0 $ $100.0 $ International Lines of Credit $ 95.5 $ 95.5 $ $ $ TOTAL COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS $445.5 $345.5 $ $100.0 $ Short term borrowings, long term debt and lines of credit are explained in detail within Note H of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Operating leases and other commercial commitments are explained in detail in Note Q of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The companys desired objective is to increase dividends by at least one half the companys earnings growth rate, ultimately reaching a dividend payout ratio of 25%. Dividends increased 4.4% in 2001, 3.5% in 2000 and 5% in 1999. 18 The company repurchased 4.3 million shares of its common stock in 2000. The net effect was a decrease in equity of $111 million. These repurchases were funded primarily by cash flow from operations. The company has indicated that it may continue to repurchase its shares when deemed appropriate. Market Risk. Market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. The company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Exposure to foreign currency risk results because the company, through its global businesses, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. The companys predominant exposures are in European, Canadian and Asian currencies. Certain cross currency trade flows arising from sales and procurement activities are consolidated prior to obtaining risk protection, primarily purchased options. The company is thus able to capitalize on its global positioning by taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures to reduce the cost of purchasing protection. At times, the company also enters into forward exchange contracts and purchased options to reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of non functional currency denominated receivables and payables, predominately intercompany transactions. Gains and losses from these hedging instruments offset the gains or losses on the underlying net exposures, assets and liabilities being hedged. Management determines the nature and extent of currency hedging activities, and in certain cases, may elect to allow certain currency exposures to remain unhedged. The company has also entered into several cross currency interest rate swaps, primarily to reduce overall borrowing costs, but also to provide a partial hedge of the net investments in certain subsidiaries. Sensitivity to foreign currency exposure risk from these financial instruments at the end of 2001 would have been immaterial based on the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in all currencies. The companys exposure to interest rate risk results from its outstanding debt obligations, short term investments and derivative financial instruments employed in the management of its debt portfolio. The debt portfolio is managed to achieve capital structure targets and reduce the overall cost of borrowing by using a combination of fixed and floating rate debt as well as interest rate swaps, caps and cross currency interest rate swaps. The companys primary exposure to interest risk comes from its floating rate debt in the US, Canada and Europe and is fairly represented by changes in LIBOR rates. At December 29, 2001, the result of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in short term LIBOR rates would not have resulted in a material impact on the pretax profit of the company. 19 The company has access to financial resources and borrowing capabilities around the world. The company believes that its strong financial position, operating cash flows and borrowing capacity provide the financial flexibility necessary to continue its record of annual dividend payments, to invest in the routine needs of its businesses, to make strategic acquisitions and to fund the restructuring and other initiatives encompassed by its growth strategy. OTHER MATTERS Environmental. The company incurs costs related to environmental issues as a result of various laws and regulations governing current operations as well as the remediation of previously contaminated sites. Future laws and regulations are expected to be increasingly stringent and will likely increase the companys expenditures related to routine environmental matters. The company accrues for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts in accordance with appropriate accounting guidelines which address probability and the ability to reasonably estimate future costs. The liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances become better defined or remediation efforts and their costs can be better estimated. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future environmental costs, the company believes that any sum it may pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of the amounts recorded will not have a materially adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. New Accounting Standards. Refer to Note A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements and the potential impact to the companys consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial position. Critical Accounting Policies. The company has determined that the following accounting policies are critical due to the amount of estimation required: Allowance for doubtful accounts. The companys estimate for its allowance for doubtful accounts related to trade receivables is based on two methods. The amounts calculated from each of these methods are combined to determine the total amount reserved. First, the company evaluates specific accounts where we have information that the customer may have an inability to meet its financial obligations (bankruptcy, etc.). In these 20 cases, the company uses its judgment, based on the best available facts and circumstances, and records a specific reserve for that customer against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount that is expected to be collected. These specific reserves are reevaluated and adjusted as additional information is received that impacts the amount reserved. Second, a general reserve is established for all customers based on a range of percentages applied to aging categories. These percentages are based on historical collection and write off experience. If circumstances change (i.e. higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customers ability to meet its financial obligation to the company), the companys estimates of the recoverability of amounts due the company could be reduced by a material amount. Inventories lower of cost or market, slow moving and obsolete. The company ensures inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market, and continually reviews the book value of discontinued product lines and SKUs to determine if these items are properly valued. The company identifies these items and assesses the ability to dispose of them at a price greater than cost. If it is determined that cost is less than market value, then cost is used for inventory valuation. If market value is less than cost, then the company writes down the related inventory to that value. If a write down to the current market value is necessary, the market value cannot be greater than the net realizable value, or ceiling, (defined as selling price less costs to complete and dispose) and cannot be lower than the net realizable value less a normal profit margin, also called the floor. The company also continually evaluates the composition of its inventory and identifies slow moving inventories. Inventory items identified as slow moving are evaluated to determine if reserves are required. Generally, the company does not experience issues with obsolete inventory due to the nature of its products. If the company is not able to achieve its expectations of the net realizable value of the inventory at its current value, the company would have to adjust its reserves accordingly. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. The companys off balance sheet arrangements include the following: The company has agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, pools of accounts and notes receivables to two Qualified Special Purpose Entities, which qualify to be accounted for as unconsolidated subsidiaries ("QSPEs"). The entities are designed to facilitate the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable and are used to fund the Mac Advantage financing program and as an additional source of liquidity. Assets and related debt off balance sheet were $82 and $64 21 million at December 29, 2001 and $69 and $66 million at December 30, 2000, respectively. The company is responsible for servicing these accounts and receives a servicing fee, while the QSPEs bear the risk of noncollection. The company has $212 million in equity forward contracts, maturing December 31, 2002, with major U.S. financial institutions. The equity forwards on Stanley common shares are designed to partially hedge the dilutive effect on earnings per share of "in the money" stock options as the stock price fluctuates. The structure requires net share settlement, and is accounted for within equity. Cash settlements may be elected at the option of the company. The company has made no cash settlement elections during the contract period. The equity forward contracts contain registration and unwind triggers in the event the companys stock price declines below $19 per share, or its credit rating is downgraded to below investment grade. If the stock price declines, the company may issue shares to the counterparties that exceed the favorable offset of stock options coming "out of the money" which could cause dilution of earnings per share. The company received 1,432,264 shares valued at $67 million from quarterly net share settlements in fiscal 2001. The company is a party to synthetic leasing programs for two of its major distribution centers. The leases are designed and qualify as operating leases for accounting purposes, where only the monthly lease amount is recorded in the income statement and the liability and value of underlying asset is off balance sheet. The company also has numerous synthetic leases on personal property. The company does not anticipate any material liabilities associated with these transactions. Cautionary Statements. The statements contained in this Annual Report (Form 10 K) to shareowners regarding the companys ability (i) reduce its cost structure, including the reduction of facilities and employees, and improve competitiveness, (ii) broaden its customer base further in each business segment, (iii) to increase dividends, and (iv) invest in its businesses and to fund acquisitions and other initiatives are forward looking and inherently subject to risk and uncertainty. The companys ability to lower its overall cost structure is dependent on the success of various initiatives to improve manufacturing operations and to implement related cost control systems and to source from and manufacture a higher percentage of the companys products in low cost countries. The success of these initiatives is dependent on the companys ability to increase the efficiency of its routine business processes, to 22 develop and implement process control systems, to develop and execute comprehensive plans for facility consolidations, the availability of vendors to perform outsourced functions, the availability of lower cost raw material of suitable quality from foreign countries, the successful recruitment and training of new employees, the resolution of any labor issues related to closing facilities, the need to respond to significant changes in product demand while any facility consolidation is in process and other unforeseen events. In addition, the companys ability to leverage the benefits of gross margin improvements is dependent upon maintaining selling, general and administrative expense at 2001 levels. The companys ability to maintain the level of selling, general and administrative expenses is dependent upon various process improvement activities, the successful implementation of changes to the sales organization, the recruitment and retention of manufacturers sales representatives and the reduction of transaction costs. The companys ability to broaden its customer base in each business segment is dependent on a number of factors including, the success of the companys sales and marketing programs and its ability to attract new customers. The companys ability to increase dividends and invest in its businesses and to fund acquisitions and other initiatives is dependent on its ability to generate adequate cash flows and is dependent on all the factors discussed above. The companys ability to achieve the objectives discussed above will also be affected by external factors. These external factors include pricing pressure and other changes within competitive markets, the continued consolidation of customers in consumer channels, increasing competition, changes in trade, monetary, fiscal and tax policies and laws, inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange rates on the competitiveness of products and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the company operates. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The company incorporates by reference the material captioned "Market Risk" in Item 7. and Note I of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 
 
