ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net sales were $2,593 million for 2002, as compared to $2,607 million in 2001, a 1% decrease. Sales in 2002 increased 2% from acquisitions, and 1% from the translation of foreign currencies, which strengthened against the U.S. dollar. Organic sales declined 4% principally due to the negative impact of the Mechanics Tools plant consolidation, continued overall price erosion, and ongoing weakness in industrial markets. Net sales in 2001 of $2,607 million were down 5% as compared to 2000. The Company experienced sales volume declines in the Tools segment due to softness in the commercial and industrial markets. Sales in 2001 were also negatively impacted, by approximately 1%, from the translation of foreign currencies, which weakened against the U.S. dollar. During 2002, the Company reported a second quarter U.S. pension settlement pre tax gain of $18 million. Also in the second quarter, the Company incurred $8 million in severance and related expenses associated with selling, general and administrative (SG&A) cost reductions. In the third quarter, the Company reported a $6 million income tax credit related to a favorable foreign tax development. In the fourth quarter, the Company recorded $22 million in non cash charges for increased inventory and receivable loss provisions and for specific manufacturing equipment impairments related to the following: (1) a reassessment of Mac Tools inventory and accounts receivable valuations, as a result of a new retail control system; (2) an inventory valuation adjustment in Fastening Systems associated with recent cost estimation process improvements; and (3) impairment of certain fixed assets related primarily to the Wichita Falls and Dallas, Texas plants consolidation. Other significant credits in 2002 include $11 million in environmental income arising from a settlement with an insurance carrier recognized in the third and fourth quarters. These credits and charges were classified within the 2002 Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) cost of sales $13 million charge; (ii) SG&A expenses $10 million charge; (iii) other net $22 million credit; and (iv) income taxes $6 million credit. The tax benefit of these charges and credits was $12 million. The audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 28, 2002 include $5.6 million or $0.04 per share of accounting corrections. These corrections relate primarily to expense 9 capitalization and depreciation which arose in prior fiscal years and account for the difference between earnings set forth in these financial statements and unaudited amounts included in the Companys January 24, 2003 earnings release. These costs were classified within the 2002 Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) sales $0.5 million, (ii) cost of sales $4.4 million; and (iii) other net $0.7 million. Management believes that these corrections are immaterial to any previously reported results of prior periods, but has recorded them in the aggregate in the fourth quarter of the year ended December 28, 2002. During 2001, the Company recorded charges related to restructuring initiatives totaling $72 million ($18 incurred in the first quarter and $54 incurred in the fourth quarter). These costs consisted primarily of severance and asset impairments as the Company continued to rationalize its cost structure and reduce employment. In addition, the Company incurred certain other significant credits and charges during 2001. In the first quarter, the Company recorded a pre tax $29 million pension curtailment gain pertaining to its U.S. pension plan. Also in the first quarter, the Company recorded $11 million of charges related to several business repositionings. The repositionings were principally in the Tools segment and related to the continuing movement of production, permanent reduction of the overhead cost structure of its manufacturing system, and a series of initiatives at Mac Tools. In the third quarter, the Company recorded a charge of $5 million for severance costs incurred due to lower sales volumes and the continuing weakness in the industrial markets. Also in the third quarter, the Company recorded $3 million in special credits for tax benefits. In the fourth quarter, the Company recorded a charge of $6 million for the disposition of inventories associated principally with discontinued manufacturing plants and stock keeping units (SKUs). These credits and charges were classified as period income and expenses and were specifically classified within the Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) sales $1 million charge; (ii) cost of sales $12 million charge; (iii) SG&A expenses $8 million charge; (iv) interest net $0.2 million credit; (v) other net $28 million credit; and (vi) income taxes $3 million credit. The tax benefit of the restructuring charges and these other charges and credits amounted to $18 million. 10 Since significant credits and charges obscure underlying trends, the narrative regarding results of operations and business segments has been expanded to provide information as to the effects of these items on each financial statement category. In 2002, the Company reported gross profit of $836 million, or 32.2% of net sales compared to $905 million or 34.7% of net sales in 2001. Included in gross profit for 2002 were $13 million of fourth quarter charges related to Mac Tools retail and Fastening Systems inventory as discussed previously. Gross profit in 2001 included $13 million of charges taken in the first and fourth quarters related to business repositioning initiatives within the Tools segment and the disposition of inventories principally from discontinued manufacturing plants and SKUs. Gross profit before these costs amounted to $849 million or 32.7% of net sales in 2002, and $918 million or 35.2% of net sales in 2001. The $69 million, or 250 basis point, decline in gross profit in 2002 is attributed to the following issues, primarily within the Tools segment: (i) the costs associated with the consolidation of two Mechanics Tools manufacturing plants, related production inefficiencies and sales declines due to U.S. plant supply chain problems; (ii) consumer business price erosion due to the continued customer mix shift towards home centers and mass merchants; (iii) Fastening Systems price erosion associated with intensified generic nail competition as well as a strategy shift to large distributors and away from smaller customers; (iv) a reduction in Last In, First Out (LIFO) related inventory benefit in 2002 versus 2001; (v) increased inventory loss provisions; (vi) and lower U.S. pension income. These issues were offset, to some extent, by favorable material and other productivity variances. Acquisitions contributed approximately $22 million to gross profit in 2002. The Company anticipates continued pricing pressure in the foreseeable future due to continued supply demand imbalances in the market. The Company expects to recover a significant portion of the negative impact to gross profit related to the Mechanics Tools plant consolidation in 2003. In 2001, the Company reported gross profit of $905 million, or 34.7% of net sales compared to $997 million or 36.3% of net sales in 2000. Excluding the charges discussed previously, 2001 gross profit was $918 million or 35.2% of sales. The reduction in gross profit was a result of a shift in sales mix to retail and independent Mac Tools sales channels versus industrial and direct Mac Tools sales channels, partially offset by $80 million in productivity improvements. The Company experienced a LIFO reserve decline as the Company continued to reduce its cost of manufacturing and product costs by moving operations to low cost countries. These LIFO benefits were offset by increases in transportation costs and other inventory valuation reserves. SG&A expenses were $547 million or 21.1% of net sales in 2002. This includes $10 million in charges from second quarter severance and related expenses ($8 million) and fourth quarter Mac Tools expenses ($2 million) discussed previously. SG&A expenses in 2001 totaled $576 million or 22.1% of net sales which included $8 million in charges ($3 million in the first quarter and $5 million in the third quarter) from business repositionings and additional severance charges apart from the restructuring initiatives. Excluding these items, SG&A expenses amounted to $537 million, or 20.7% of net sales in 2002, as compared to $568 million, or 21.8% of net sales in 2001. The Company reduced spending in many functions, particularly selling expenses in Mac Tools as a result of lower retail distributor headcount. There was a $12 million decline in the provision for doubtful accounts mainly attributable to a decrease in Mac Tools provisions due to lower sales as compared with 2001 and the mix shift from retail to wholesale sales which involve reduced credit risk. These favorable items more than offset a decrease in net U.S. pension income in 2002. SG&A expenses were $576 million, or 22.1% of net sales in 2001, as compared with $638 million, or 23.4% of net sales in 2000. Excluding the charges previously detailed, SG&A expenses were $568 million or 21.8% of net sales in 2001. Improvements in 2001 SG&A expenses were attributable to continued cost reductions achieved from changes made within the information management infrastructure, downward adjustments to employment levels in response to weak economic markets and the benefits attained from the Companys restructuring and repositioning efforts. 11 Interest net for 2002 was $25 million, down slightly from $26 million in 2001. The decrease was a result of lower interest rates and weighted average debt levels in 2002. Interest net of $26 million in 2001 represented a small decrease from $27 million in 2000 due to a decline in interest rates partially offset by an increase in weighted average debt levels in 2001. Other net in 2002 was $8 million in income compared to $5 million of income in 2001. The 2002 amount includes an $18 million gain from the second quarter U.S. pension settlement and $8 million in fourth quarter fixed asset impairment losses. The third and fourth quarters of 2002 reflect $11 million in income from an environmental settlement with an insurance carrier, which was offset by a $2 million increase in other environmental expense. The 2001 amount includes a $29 million U.S. pension plan curtailment gain and a charge of $2 million related to Mac Tools business repositionings, both occurring in the first quarter of 2001. There was no goodwill amortization expense in 2002, due to adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 "Goodwill and Intangible Assets", while goodwill amortization was $8 million in 2001. Asset disposals generated $1 million in gains in 2002 as compared to $1 million in losses in 2001. The Company expects non cash intangibles amortization expense to increase to approximately $10 million in 2003 based on preliminary acquisition purchase accounting, as compared with $4 million in 2002. Other net represented $5 million of income in 2001 compared with $20 million expense in 2000. Excluding the aforementioned pension curtailment gain of $29 million and charges of $2 million, 2001 other net amounted to $22 million expense. The Companys effective income tax rate for 2002 was 32% as compared to 33% for 2001 and 34% for 2000. The tax rate decreases reflect the continued benefit of organizational and operational changes during recent years that have generated a higher percentage of taxable income in countries with lower statutory rates, primarily in Europe, Israel, and the Far East. The third quarter of 2002 reflects a favorable foreign tax development that reduced income taxes by $6 million, which was offset by the impact of non deductible excise tax associated with the termination of the defined benefit pension plan. In addition, the Company recorded a non recurring tax benefit in the third quarter of 2001 amounting to $3 million. These benefit items were entirely offset by reduced tax benefits related to the restructuring and other charges. BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS The Tools segment includes carpenters, mechanics, pneumatic and hydraulic tools, as well as tool sets. The Doors segment includes commercial and residential doors, both automatic and manual, and associated services, as well as closet doors and systems, home decor, door locking systems, commercial and consumer hardware. Tools (Millions of Dollars) 2002 2001 2000 Net sales $ 1,954 $ 2,008 $ 2,129 Operating profit $ 208 $ 266 $ 286 % of Net sales 10.6% 13.2% 13.4% Tools sales declined 2.7% in 2002 as compared to 2001. The sales decrease was mainly the result of price erosion and unfavorable channel mix in several businesses, and the Mechanics Tools plant consolidation previously mentioned, offset by $23 million in higher sales from acquisitions. Tools operating profit excluding the net impact of the charges allocated to the Tools segment totaling $23 million in 2002 and $15 million in 2001, totaled $231 million or 11.8% of net sales and $281 million or 14.0% of net sales, respectively. The $50 million decline was primarily attributable to the previously detailed Mechanics Tools domestic plant consolidation and internal product sourcing matters, price concessions in the consumer and Fastening Systems businesses, lower LIFO related inventory valuation change in 2002 as compared with 2001, and increased inventory loss provisions. Cost structure improvements 12 including shifting production to low cost countries and SG&A cost reductions were more than offset by the above items. Tools sales decreased 6% in 2001 as compared to 2000. The sales decrease was primarily the result of unit volume declines from the Mac Tools repositioning in the first quarter of 2001 and weak industrial markets in North America. Also contributing to the sales decline was the effect of foreign currency translation as European currencies weakened against the U.S. dollar. Despite lower sales, Tools operating profit as a percentage of net sales remained fairly static as compared to 2000. Excluding the impact of $15 million in 2001 special charges allocated to the Tools segment, operating profit was $281 million, or 13.9% of net sales. The improvement in 2001 operating margin as a percentage of net sales excluding special charges, was primarily a result of SG&A expense reductions. Doors (Millions of Dollars) 2002 2001 2000 Net sales $ 639 $ 599 $ 602 Operating profit $ 81 $ 64 $ 55 % of Net sales 12.7% 10.7% 9.2% Doors sales increased 6.7% in 2002, primarily due to the Best and Senior Technologies acquisitions. Increases in Hardware and Access Technologies organic sales were offset by declines in Home Decor. Operating profit was 12.7% of net sales as compared to 10.7% for 2001. Acquired companies contributed $8 million operating profit. The remaining increase in operating profit reflects favorable production costs in low cost countries and lower SG&A expenses. Excluding the impact of severance charges allocated to the Doors segment of $1 million in 2002 and $5 million in 2001, operating profit was $82 million or 12.8% of net sales in 2002, compared to $69 million, or 11.5% of net sales in 2001. Net sales for 2001 were fairly static, representing a decrease of less than 1%. Strong sales attributable to a new program launch with a significant customer were offset by sluggish market conditions in the Americas. Operating profit in 2001 was 10.7% of net sales compared to operating profit of 9.2% for 2000. Excluding the impact of $5 million in charges allocated to the Doors segment in 2001, operating profit was $69 million, or 11.5% of sales. The improvement in operating profit, as a percentage of sales, is a result of increased productivity in the Hardware business as the Company shifted the production base to low cost countries, and the reduction of SG&A expenses. RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES In 2001, the Company undertook initiatives to reduce its cost structure and executed several business repositionings intended to improve its competitiveness. These actions resulted in the closure of 13 facilities and a net employment reduction of approximately 2,200 production, selling and administrative people. As a result, the Company recorded $72 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges. Reserves were established for these initiatives consisting of $55 million for severance, $10 million for asset impairment charges and $7 million for other exit costs. The charges for asset impairments were primarily related to manufacturing and other assets that were retired and disposed of as a result of manufacturing facility closures. At December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, restructuring and asset impairment reserve balances were $2 million and $39 million, respectively. The December 29, 2001 balance reflects $6 million related to the impairment of assets. The December 28, 2002 balance relates primarily to 2001 initiatives. As of December 28, 2002, 86 manufacturing and distribution facilities had been closed as a result of the restructuring initiatives since 1997. In 2002, 2001 and 2000, approximately 1,000, 2,100 and 900 employees have been terminated as a result of restructuring initiatives, respectively. Severance payments of $26 million, $42 million and $29 million and other exit payments of $4 million, $4 million and $3 million were made in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Write offs of impaired assets were $6 million, $8 million and $7 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. 13 In June 2002 and September 2001, $8 million and $5 million in severance charges were recorded, respectively, as the Company continued to rationalize its headcount to provide further SG&A expense reductions. These charges were classified within SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These actions resulted in the termination of approximately 200 selling and administrative employees in each year. As of December 28, 2002, no accrual remained. The Company expects to continue restructuring activities in the future primarily in connection with the movement of manufacturing or sourcing to low cost countries and SG&A expense reductions. In 2002, $6.4 million in restructuring reserves were established in purchase accounting for the Best acquisition, due to planned closure of several Best offices and synergies in certain centralized functions. The $6.4 million is comprised of $5.3 million for severance and $1.1 million for other exit costs primarily related to non cancelable leases. FINANCIAL CONDITION LIQUIDITY, SOURCES AND USES OF CAPITAL The Companys primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and borrowings under various credit facilities. The Company has historically generated strong cash flows from operations. In 2002, cash flows from operations were $285 million as compared to $222 million in 2001. In the second half of 2002, the Company received a gross pension settlement of $115 million; an ongoing U.S. defined contribution plan was pre funded with $29 million, and excise and income taxes totaling $48 million were paid, providing a net $38 million cash inflow from the pension settlement. In the fourth quarter, one of the Companys major customers changed its payment practices enabling acceleration of accounts receivable collections by approximately $30 million. Excluding the $38 million pension settlement and the $30 million impact of a change in a major customers payment practice, 2002 operating cash flows were $217 million, consistent with 2001. Cash payments related to restructuring and other charges of $42 million in 2002 were comparable to 2001. During 2001, the Company generated $222 million in operating cash flow as compared to $236 million in 2000. The decline in operating cash flows was primarily the result of an increase in cash payments for restructuring in 2001 of $45 million as compared with $32 million in 2000. Capital expenditures were $52 million in 2002 as compared to $73 million in 2001. The Company incurred higher capital expenditures in 2001 for "The Stanley Learning Center" (a major addition at world headquarters for the training and development of employees), investment in various plants including movement of production to low cost countries, and increased costs for software development and acquisitions as the Company expanded the infrastructure of its systems. Capital expenditures were $73 million in 2001 as compared to $64 million in 2000. In 2002, the Company received $338 million in net proceeds from issuance of long term debt, and disbursed $356 million for business acquisitions. The Company made $154 million in payments on borrowings. These debt proceeds and repayments, in addition to debt issuance costs and currency fluctuations, resulted in a $220 million increase in the Companys short term and long term borrowings. The Company has unused short (364 day) and long term (multi year) credit arrangements with several banks to borrow up to $350 million at the lower of prime or money market rates. Of this amount, $100 million is long term. In addition, the Company has short term lines of credit with numerous foreign banks aggregating $98 million, of which $87 million was available at December 28, 2002. Short term arrangements are reviewed annually for renewal. Of the long term and short term lines, $350 million is available to support the Companys commercial paper program. In addition to these lines of credit, the Company maintains a facility designed for the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable for purposes of additional liquidity. As of December 28, 2002, the Companys maximum available funds under this arrangement were $106 million, of which the Company had utilized $33 million. 14 The Company also has numerous assets, predominantly vehicles and equipment, under a one year term renewable U.S. master personal property lease. Residual value obligations, which approximate the fair value of the related assets, under this master lease were $43 million at December 28, 2002. The Company does not anticipate any material liabilities associated with these transactions. The following summarizes the Companys significant contractual obligations and commitments that impact its liquidity. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total ( 1 year 1 3 yrs 4 5 yrs ) 5 yrs Short Term Borrowings $ 140.1 $ 140.1 $ $ $ Long term Debt 573.8 9.5 128.3 226.1 209.9 Operating Leases 92.3 43.6 25.9 12.6 10.2 Unconditional Purchase Commitments 60.7 49.9 8.0 2.8 Other Contractual Obligations 31.3 16.3 5.0 5.0 5.0 Total Contractual Cash Obligations $ 898.2 $ 259.4 $ 167.2 $ 246.5 $ 225.1 OTHER COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS Amounts of Commitments Expiration Per Period (in millions) Total ( 1 year 1 3 yrs 4 5 yrs ) 5 yrs U.S. Lines of Credit $ 350.0 $250.0 $ $ 100.0 $ International Lines of Credit 87.0 87.0 Total Commercial Commitments $ 437.0 $ 337.0 $ $ 100.0 $ Short term borrowings, long term debt and lines of credit are explained in detail within Note I Long Term Debt and Financing Arrangements of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. Operating leases and other commercial commitments are explained in detail in Note R of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. The Companys objective is to increase dividends by approximately one half the Companys earnings growth rate, ultimately reaching a dividend payout ratio of 25%. Dividends increased 5.3% in 2002, 4.4% in 2001 and 3.5% in 2000. The Company plans to use a significant portion of free cash flow (operating cash flow less dividends and capital expenditures) to fund future acquisitions in commercial and industrial markets. The Company repurchased 4.3 million shares of its common stock in 2000. The net effect was a decrease in equity of $111 million. These repurchases were funded primarily by cash flow from operations. The Company may resume repurchase of its shares as it deems appropriate. MARKET RISK Market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Exposure to foreign currency risk results because the Company, through its global businesses, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. The Companys predominant exposures are in European, Canadian and Asian currencies. Certain cross currency trade flows arising from sales and procurement activities are consolidated prior to obtaining risk 15 protection, primarily purchased options. The Company is thus able to capitalize on its global positioning by taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures to reduce the cost of purchasing protection. At times, the Company also enters into forward exchange contracts and purchased options to reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of non functional currency denominated receivables and payables, predominately intercompany transactions. Gains and losses from these hedging instruments offset the gains or losses on the underlying net exposures, assets and liabilities being hedged. Management determines the nature and extent of currency hedging activities, and in certain cases, may elect to allow certain currency exposures to remain unhedged. The Company has also entered into several cross currency interest rate swaps, primarily to reduce overall borrowing costs, but also to provide a partial hedge of the net investments in certain subsidiaries. Sensitivity to foreign currency exposure risk from these financial instruments at the end of 2002 would have been immaterial based on the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in all currencies. The Companys exposure to interest rate risk results from its outstanding debt obligations, short term investments and derivative financial instruments employed in the management of its debt portfolio. The debt portfolio is managed to achieve capital structure targets and reduce the overall cost of borrowing by using a combination of fixed and floating rate debt as well as interest rate swaps, caps and cross currency interest rate swaps. The Companys primary exposure to interest rate risk comes from its floating rate debt in the U.S., Canada and Europe and is fairly represented by changes in LIBOR rates. At December 28, 2002, the result of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in short term LIBOR rates would not have resulted in a material impact on the pre tax profit of the Company. Fluctuations in the fair value of the Companys common stock affect ESOP expense as well as diluted shares outstanding as discussed in the U.S. Pension and ESOP, and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements (Equity Hedge) sections of Management Discussion and Analysis, respectively. The Company has access to financial resources and borrowing capabilities around the world. There are no material instruments within the debt structure that would accelerate payment requirements due to a change in credit rating, and no significantly restrictive covenants. The Company believes that its strong financial position, operating cash flows and borrowing capacity provide the financial flexibility necessary to continue its record of annual dividend payments, to invest in the routine needs of its businesses, to make strategic acquisitions and to fund other initiatives encompassed by its growth strategy. OTHER MATTERS ENVIRONMENTAL The Company incurs costs related to environmental issues as a result of various laws and regulations governing current operations as well as the remediation of previously contaminated sites. Future laws and regulations are expected to be increasingly stringent and will likely increase the Companys expenditures related to routine environmental matters. The Company accrues for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts in accordance with appropriate accounting guidelines which address probability and the ability to reasonably estimate future costs. The liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances become better defined or remediation efforts and their costs can be better estimated. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future environmental costs, the Company believes that any sum it may pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of the amounts recorded will not have a materially adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Refer to Note T Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information on environmental liabilities and related cash flows. U.S. PENSION AND ESOP In June 2002, the Company recorded an $18 million pre tax pension settlement gain in other net. This involved the termination and settlement of the primary U.S. salaried employee plan as well as settlement of most of the liabilities in the ongoing plan for hourly employees. In addition to the settlement gain, the Company recorded $8 million of operating income related to these plans in 2002, whereas in 2003 the ongoing hourly plan will reflect approximately $2 million in expense. 16 As detailed in Note M Employee Benefit Plans to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K, the Company has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) under which the ongoing U.S. defined contribution and 401(k) plans are funded. Overall ESOP expense is affected by the market value of Stanley stock on the monthly dates when shares are released. In 2002, the market value of shares released averaged $39.62 per share and the net ESOP expense was negligible. In the event the market value of Stanley stock on the 2003 ESOP share release dates is below the $39.62 2002 average, the net ESOP expense will increase. The Company provides a 5% guaranteed rate of return on participant contributions made to the tax deferred savings plan (401K) prior to July 1998 when all contributions were invested in Stanley common stock. The value of the shares participants purchased prior to July 1998 along with the 5% cumulative guaranteed rate of return on Stanley common stock is known as an Investment Protection Account (IPA). Beginning in July 1998 the investment options for plan participant contributions were enhanced to include a variety of investment funds in addition to the Companys common stock, and there is no guaranteed rate of return to participants on any contributions made after that time. The IPA guarantee for participants who are not considered highly compensated is now included in the actuarial valuation of an ongoing U.S. pension plan. Payments related to the IPA guarantees, if they have any value, would be made to participants over a period of many years, generally commencing with retirement. In the event the market value of Stanley common stock declines, additional costs may be triggered by the IPA benefit guarantee. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Refer to Note A Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements and the potential impact to the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial position. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Preparation of the Companys financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K are described in Note A Significant Accounting Policies thereto. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters with inherent uncertainty. The most significant areas involving management estimates are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ from managements estimates. ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS Stanleys estimate for its allowance for doubtful accounts related to trade receivables is based on two methods. The amounts calculated from each of these methods are combined to determine the total amount reserved. First, the Company evaluates specific accounts where information indicates the customers may have an inability to meet financial obligations, such as bankruptcy. In these cases, the Company uses its judgment, based on the best available facts and circumstances, to record a specific reserve for those customers against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount expected to be collected. These specific reserves are reevaluated and adjusted as additional information is received. Second, a general reserve is established for all customers based on a range of percentages applied to receivables aging categories. These percentages are based on historical collection and write off experience. If circumstances change, for example higher than expected defaults or a material adverse change in a major customers ability to meet its financial obligation to the Company, estimates of the recoverability of receivable amounts due could be reduced. In addition, Mac Tools retail related receivables, $43 million, net, at December 28, 2002, are comprised of thousands of high credit risk, individually small, accounts. While some customers remit payments by mail, to a large extent these receivables are collected by distributors in direct contact with customers on truck routes, and by outside collection agencies on certain open routes and delinquent accounts. The Company continues to reduce the number of Mac Tools employee distributors who support the retail channel of the 17 business, and increase the number of wholesale non employee distributors. This retail to wholesale mix shift in the Mac Tools business has an inherent positive impact on the asset quality going forward but increases the collection risk of these Mac Tools retail related receivables. Realization of these receivables is dependent upon information systems and effective management of collection efforts by distributors and outside agencies. INVENTORIES LOWER OF COST OR MARKET, SLOW MOVING AND OBSOLETE U.S. inventories are valued at the lower of LIFO cost or market. The calculation of LIFO reserves, and therefore the net inventory valuation, is affected by inflation and deflation in inventory components. The Company ensures all inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market, and continually reviews the book value of discontinued product lines and SKUs to determine if these items are properly valued. The Company identifies these inventories and assesses the ability to dispose of them at a price greater than cost. If it is determined that cost is less than market value, then cost is used for inventory valuation. If market value is less than cost, then the Company writes down the related inventory to that value. If a write down to the current market value is necessary, the market value cannot be greater than the net realizable value, or ceiling (defined as selling price less costs to complete and dispose), and cannot be lower than the net realizable value less a normal profit margin, also called the floor. The Company also continually evaluates the composition of its inventory and identifies slow moving inventories. Inventory items identified as slow moving are evaluated to determine if reserves are required. Generally, the Company does not experience significant issues with obsolete inventory due to the nature of its products. If the Company is not able to achieve its expectations regarding net realizable value of inventory at its current value, reserves would have to be adjusted accordingly. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Company completed acquisitions in 2002 valued at $359 million. The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are recorded under the purchase method at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the underlying net assets of acquired businesses. The Company had recorded goodwill of $348 million at December 28, 2002 and $216 million at December 29, 2001. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment testing. The identification and measurement of goodwill and unamortized intangibles impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of reporting units. The estimates of fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available at the date of assessment, which primarily incorporate management assumptions about future cash flows. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in industry or market conditions or the rate and extent to which anticipated synergies or cost savings are realized with newly acquired entities. While the Company has not recorded intangibles impairment losses in several years, it is possible impairments may occur in the future in the event expected cash flows change significantly. Specifically, the Fastening Systems reporting unit is experiencing margin declines due primarily to the intensified generic nail competition and industrial channel movement to large distributors. Fastening Systems had $33 million of recorded goodwill at December 28, 2002. There is potential for future goodwill impairment losses if Fastening Systems projected profits and cash flows continue to decline. See Note G Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further discussion. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (PP&E) The Company generally values PP&E at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Impairment losses are recorded when indicators of impairment, such as plant closures, are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount. The Company assesses whether machinery and equipment can be used at other facilities and if not, estimates the proceeds to be realized upon sale of the assets. The impairment loss is then quantified by comparing the carrying amount of the assets to the weighted average discounted cash flows, which consider various possible outcomes for the disposition of the assets. Primarily as a result of plant rationalization, certain facilities and equipment are not currently used in operations. The Company has recorded impairment losses related to unused assets and such losses may potentially occur in the future. 18 The Company initiated a worldwide PP&E physical inventory in 2002 which is expected to be complete in 2003. Upon completion of this physical inventory, it is possible losses may be detected. RISK INSURANCE To some extent, the Company self insures for various business exposures. For domestic workers compensation and product liability, the Company generally purchases outside insurance coverage only for catastrophic losses ("stop loss" insurance). The two risk areas involving the most significant accounting estimates are workers compensation and product liability (liability for alleged injuries associated with the Companys products). Actuarial valuations performed by an outside risk insurance expert form the basis for workers compensation and product liability loss reserves recorded. The actuary contemplates the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors to determine the range of estimated reserve required. Risk insurance reserves are comprised of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts expected for development of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified by third party administrator specialists (insurance companies) for workers compensation and by in house legal counsel in consultation with outside attorneys for product liability. The cash outflows related to risk insurance claims are expected to occur over approximately 8 to 10 years, and the present value of expected claim payments is reserved. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of December 28, 2002 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. FREIGHT ACCRUAL As a result of the continued movement of U.S. based manufacturing operations to low cost country manufacturing and outsourcing, the Company has experienced increased transportation costs over the past three years, as well as increased complexity in the accrual estimation process for these costs. The Companys accrual estimation methodology is based on data from a third party transportation administrator and historical trends or lag factors applied to such underlying data. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Companys off balance sheet arrangements include the following: RECEIVABLE SECURITIZATIONS The Company has agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, pools of accounts and notes receivables to two Qualified Special Purpose Entities (QSPEs), which qualify to be accounted for as unconsolidated subsidiaries. The entities are designed to facilitate the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable, are used to fund the Mac Advantage financing program as well as provide long term secured financing to Mac Tools distributors, and as an additional source of liquidity. Assets and related debt off balance sheet were $98 and $77 million at December 28, 2002 and $85 and $64 million at December 29, 2001, respectively. The Company is responsible for servicing these accounts and receives a servicing fee, while the QSPEs bear the risk of noncollection. The proceeds from sales of eligible receivables to QSPEs were $80 million in 2002 and $81 million in 2001. There were no gains or losses on these sales. At December 28, 2002, the Company has a $23 million long term investment in the QSPEs. In the event the QSPEs incur future losses, this investment would be written down with associated losses reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, the Company had $32 million and $25 million, respectively, in receivables due from the Mac Tools related QSPE. STANLEY COMMON STOCK EQUITY HEDGE The Company has $213 million in equity forward contracts with major U.S. financial institutions, of which $175 million matures on December 31, 2003 and $38 million on September 24, 2004. The equity forwards on Stanley common shares are designed to partially hedge the dilutive effect on earnings per share of "in the money" stock options as the stock price fluctuates, and to reduce potential cash outflow for the repurchase of the Companys stock to offset option exercises. The structure requires interim quarterly net share settlement, and is accounted for within equity. Cash settlements may be elected at the option of the Company. The Company has historically made no cash settlement elections. 19 The equity forward contracts contain registration event triggers applicable if the Companys credit rating is downgraded to BBB and Baa2 as determined by Standard & Poors Rating Service and Moodys Investor Services, respectively. A registration event requires the Company to make its best effort to register the shares under the hedge. In addition the equity forward contracts contain unwind triggers commencing when the Companys stock price declines below $19 to $15 per share varying by contract (a weighted average of $16.73), or its credit rating is downgraded to BBB and Baa3 as determined by Standard & Poors Rating Service and Moodys Investor Services, respectively. In the event of an unwind caused by share price decline or a credit rating downgrade, the Company is obligated to make its best efforts to register shares under the hedge. The Company, as its liquidity permits, may elect to repurchase shares from the counterparties, who are otherwise entitled to sell these shares into the market. If the stock price declines, the Company may issue shares to the counterparties that exceed the favorable offset of stock options coming "out of the money" resulting in dilution of earnings per share. The Company delivered 1,338,708 shares of common stock with a market value of $47 million ($42 million book value) from quarterly net share settlements in 2002. In 2001, the Company received 1,432,264 shares of common stock with a market value and book value of $67 million from settlements. The following chart summarizes hypothetical net share settlements occurring at various Stanley common stock prices, assuming the final 2002 quarterly interim settlement share price of $34.83, or 6.1 million underlying shares, as the starting point. Incr (Decr) in Equity Hedge Net Diluted Shares Share Diluted Shares Settlement Shares Outstanding price from Options Delivered (Received) Increase (Decrease) $ 20 (1,302,128) 4,541,149 3,239,021 $ 30 (651,273) 986,010 334,737 $ 40 612,801 (791,564) (178,763) The accounting treatment on the equity forward contracts is expected to change in the third quarter of 2003 based on an exposure draft issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Currently, activity on the equity hedge is accounted for entirely within equity whereas under the proposed new rules "mark to market" accounting will be required. The rule change, if enacted, would mean gains and losses related to fair value of the shares delivered or received under the quarterly interim share settlements would be reported in the Companys income statement. In addition, the proposed rule changes may require the Company to report the $213 million notional amount of the equity forward contracts as debt. The Company is evaluating various alternatives including maintainance, modification, and termination of its equity hedge program but has not decided on any course of action. SYNTHETIC LEASES The Company is a party to synthetic leasing programs for two of its major distribution centers. The leases are designed and qualify as operating leases for accounting purposes, where only the monthly lease amount is recorded in the income statement and the liability and value of underlying assets are off balance sheet. The reasons for these programs are primarily to reduce overall cost and to retain flexibility. As of December 28, 2002, the estimated fair values of assets and remaining obligations for these two properties were $34 million and $24 million, respectively. FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 46 "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" will affect the accounting for one of these synthetic leases in the third quarter of 2003. Upon adoption of FIN 46, $17 million in assets and $11 million in obligations for one of the properties under synthetic leases will be reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company is considering various alternatives to change the lease structure but has not determined a course of action. CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995. The statements contained in this Annual Report to shareowners regarding the Companys ability (i) to generate cash and realize outstanding receivables, (ii) to increase shareowner returns and dividends, (iii) to improve its brand, (iv) to maintain or increase sales and gain retail share, (v) to reduce its cost structure, restructure and continue productivity gains, including the reduction of facilities and employees, 20 and improve competitiveness, (vi) to recover a significant portion of the negative impact to gross profit of the Mechanics Tools plant consolidation and (vii) to maintain the level of ongoing expense of the hourly pension plan are forward looking and inherently subject to risk and uncertainty. The Companys ability to generate cash, increase shareowner returns and dividends and maintain or increase sales and gain retail share is dependent on both internal and external factors, including (i) the success of the Companys efforts to redress production problems in its Mechanics Tools business, (ii) the success of the Companys marketing and sales efforts, (iii) the continued success of initiatives with The Home Depot, Lowes and WalMart, (iv) continuing improvements in productivity and cost reductions, including inventory reductions, continued improvement in the payment terms under which the Company buys and sells goods, materials and product and continued reduction of SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales, (v) the ability of the sales force to adapt to changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage, (vi) the absence of increased pricing pressures from customers and competitors and the ability to defend market share in the face of price competition, (vii) the acceptance of the Companys new products in the marketplace as well as the ability to satisfy demand for these products, (viii) the successful integration of the Companys recent acquisitions (ix) outcomes of pending and future litigation and (x) the strength of the United States economy and the relative strength of foreign currencies, including, without limitation, the Euro and the Taiwan dollar. Additionally, the realization of Mac Tools retail receivables in particular is dependent upon information systems and effective management of collection efforts by distributors and outside agencies pertaining to covered and open routes. The Companys ability to improve its brand is dependent upon a number of factors, including the success of the marketing efforts of the Company and its customers and the success and acceptance of the Companys new products. The Companys ability to reduce its cost structure, restructure and continue productivity gains, including the reduction of facilities and employees, and improve competitiveness is dependent on the success of various initiatives that are underway or are being developed to improve manufacturing and sales operations and to implement related control systems, which initiatives include certain facility closures and related workforce reductions expected to be completed in 2003. The success of these initiatives is dependent on the Companys ability to increase the efficiency of its routine business processes, to develop and implement process control systems, to mitigate the effects of any material cost inflation, to develop and execute comprehensive plans for facility consolidations, the availability of vendors to perform outsourced functions, the successful recruitment and training of new employees, the resolution of any labor issues related to closing facilities, the need to respond to significant changes in product demand while any facility consolidation is in process and other unforeseen events. The Companys ability to recover a significant portion of the negative impact to gross profit related to flawed execution in Mechanics Tools consolidations is dependent on the continued ability of the affected facilities to maintain current production rates, the successful integration and performance of new Mechanics Tools operations and management personnel and processes and the successful recovery of demand for Mac and Mechanics Tools products affected by the aforementioned flawed execution. The Companys ability to maintain the level of ongoing expense of the hourly pension plan is dependent on the Companys employment levels and interest rates. The Companys ability to achieve the objectives discussed above will also be affected by other external factors. These external factors include pricing pressure and other changes within competitive markets, the continued consolidation of customers in consumer channels, inventory management pressures on the Companys customers, increasing competition, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange rates on the competitiveness of products, the impact of events that cause or may cause disruption in the Companys distribution and sales networks such as the recent closure of ports on the West Coast, the events of 21 September 11, 2001, war, political unrest and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the Company operates. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. The Company incorporates by reference the material captioned "Market Risk" in Item 7 and the material in Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. 
 
