ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Company is a worldwide producer of tools and door products for professional, industrial, and consumer use. The Tools segment manufactures and markets carpenters, mechanics, pneumatic and hydraulic tools as well as tool sets and tool storage units. The Doors segment manufactures and markets automatic doors, as well as closet doors and systems, home d&eacute;cor, door locking systems, commercial and consumer hardware, security access control systems and patient monitoring devices. The Company has embarked on a growth strategy which will likely alter its portfolio of businesses in the future. This growth strategy encompasses acquisitions and the reduction of risk associated with certain large customer concentrations. The Company believes this strategy will improve the overall profitability of operations. In 2003, acquisitions, primarily Best Access which was completed in November 2002, had a significant favorable impact on the Company. Additionally, the Company entered into a definitive agreement during December 2003 to sell its residential entry door business, and, therefore, this business has been reported as a discontinued operation for all periods. The entry door business contributed $0.13, $0.17, and $0.12 of diluted earnings per share in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. As discussed in Note V Subsequent Events of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of the Form 10 K, in the first quarter of 2004 the sale of the entry door business, the acquisition of Chicago Steel Tape Co., and tender offers for Blick plc and Frisco Bay Industries Ltd. were completed. The three acquisitions are expected to offset the financial impact associated with the sale of the entry door business. The Company announced restructuring plans ("Operation 15") in April 2003 to improve the profitability of certain businesses. The restructuring was completed in 2003 and included a workforce reduction of over 1,000 people, the exit from the Mac Tools retail channel ("MacDirect"), and the impairment of certain fixed assets and inventories related primarily to the future consolidation of two distribution facilities. In the second quarter of 2003, the Company recognized $8 million in charges related to compensation payable to the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, John M. Trani, pertaining to his retirement effective December 31, 2003. These retirement costs were comprised of severance and pension as specified in an employment contract entered into in 2000. During 2003, the strengthening of the euro and other foreign currencies had a significant favorable impact on the translation of foreign currency denominated operating results into U.S. dollars. It is estimated that the favorable impact of foreign currency translation contributed $0.13 of diluted earnings per share in 2003. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net sales from continuing operations were $2,678 million for 2003, as compared to $2,384 million in 2002, a 12% increase. Acquisitions contributed $266 million, or an 11% increase of net sales. Organic sales volume declined primarily due to the termination of the MacDirect program combined with industrial and consumer channel customers inventory corrections in the first half of 2003. These declines were partially offset by strong fourth quarter 2003 demand in the U.S. Hand Tools and Mechanics Tools businesses, and expanding service operations and share gains at national accounts in the Access Technologies business. Overall, organic sales volume declined 2%, offset by favorable foreign currency translation of 3% due primarily to the European currencies. Net sales from continuing operations were $2,384 million for 2002 which were relatively flat as compared to $2,394 million in 2001. Sales in 2002 increased 2% from acquisitions, and 1% from the translation of foreign currencies, which strengthened against the U.S. dollar. Organic sales declined 3% principally due to the negative impact of the Mechanics Tools plant consolidation, continued overall price erosion, and ongoing weakness in industrial markets. During 2003, the Company recorded $109 million of pre tax restructuring costs, impairment charges, and other exit costs in connection with Operation 15. Certain expenses totaling $8 million related to 7 the retirement of the Companys former Chairman and CEO were recorded in addition to Operation 15 related charges. A summary of the pre tax charges recorded in 2003 related to these matters is as follows: FirstQuarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter FourthQuarter Year (Millions of Dollars) Operation 15 Mac Direct exit Inventory losses $ 4 $ 3 $ &mdash; $ &mdash; $ 7 Receivable losses 10 11 &mdash; 4 25 Other Mac &mdash; 14 6 1 21 Distribution Facilities &mdash; &mdash; &mdash; 13 13 Other &mdash; 12 11 20 43 Total Operation 15 $ 14 $ 40 $ 17 $ 38 $ 109 Other severance 3 &mdash; &mdash; &mdash; 3 CEO retirement &mdash; 8 &mdash; &mdash; 8 Total $ 17 $ 48 $ 17 $ 38 $ 120 These charges were classified within the 2003 Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) Cost of sales &mdash; $20 million; (ii) SG&A and Provision for doubtful accounts &mdash; $37 million; (iii) Other net &mdash; $10 million; and (iv) Restructuring and asset impairment charges &mdash; $53 million. During 2002, the Company reported a second quarter U.S. pension settlement pre tax gain of $18 million. Also in the second quarter, the Company incurred $8 million in severance and related expenses associated with selling, general and administrative cost reductions. In the third quarter, the Company reported a $6 million income tax credit related to a favorable foreign tax development. In the fourth quarter, the Company recorded $22 million in non cash charges for increased inventory and receivable loss provisions and for specific manufacturing equipment impairments related to the following: (1) a reassessment of Mac Tools inventory and accounts receivable valuations, as a result of a new retail control system; (2) an inventory valuation adjustment in Fastening Systems associated with cost estimation process improvements; and (3) impairment of certain fixed assets related primarily to the Wichita Falls and Dallas, Texas plants consolidation. Also in the fourth quarter the Company recorded $5.6 million of accounting corrections. These corrections relate primarily to expense capitalization and depreciation. Other significant credits in 2002 include $11 million in environmental income arising from a settlement with an insurance carrier recognized in the third and fourth quarters. These credits and charges were classified within the 2002 Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) Net sales &mdash; $1 million charge; (ii) Cost of sales &mdash; $17 million charge; (iii) SG&A expenses &mdash; $10 million charge; (iv) Other net &mdash; $21 million credit; and (v) Income taxes &mdash; $6 million credit. During 2001, the Company recorded charges related to restructuring initiatives totaling $72 million ($18 million incurred in the first quarter and $54 million incurred in the fourth quarter). These costs consisted primarily of severance and asset impairments as the Company continued to rationalize its cost structure and reduce employment. In addition, the Company incurred certain other significant credits and charges during 2001. In the first quarter, the Company recorded a pre tax $29 million pension curtailment gain pertaining to its U.S. pension plan. Also in the first quarter, the Company recorded $11 million of charges related to several business repositionings. The repositionings were principally in the Tools segment and related to the continuing movement of production, permanent reduction of the overhead cost structure of its manufacturing system, and a series of initiatives at Mac Tools. In the third quarter, the Company recorded a charge of $5 million for severance costs incurred due to lower sales volumes and the continuing weakness in the industrial markets. Also in the third quarter, the Company recorded $3 million in credits for tax benefits. In the fourth quarter, the Company recorded a charge of $6 million for the disposition of inventories associated principally 8 with discontinued manufacturing plants and stock keeping units (SKUs). These credits and charges were classified within the 2001 Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) Net sales &mdash; $1 million charge; (ii) Cost of sales &mdash; $12 million charge; (iii) SG&A expenses &mdash; $8 million charge; (iv) Other net &mdash; $28 million credit; (v) Restructuring and asset impairments &mdash; $72 million charge; and (vi) Income taxes &mdash; $3 million credit. The Company reported gross profit from continuing operations of $893 million, or 33.3% of net sales, in 2003, compared to $790 million, or 33.1% of net sales, in 2002. Excluding the $128 million favorable impact of acquisitions, gross profit declined slightly as compared with 2002 primarily due to reduced organic sales volume mentioned previously, inventory losses related to the exit of MacDirect, the impairment of inventories related to the future consolidation of two distribution facilities, and higher retirement plan costs. These negatives were partially offset by favorable material and other productivity variances. The Company anticipates significant commodity inflation in 2004, particularly for steel materials, which is expected to be offset by other productivity improvements. In 2002, the Company reported gross profit from continuing operations of $790 million, or 33.1% of net sales compared to $861 million or 36.0% of net sales in 2001. The decline in 2002 gross profit is attributed to the following matters: (i) the costs associated with the consolidation of two Mechanics Tools manufacturing plants, related production inefficiencies and sales declines due to related plant supply chain problems; (ii) consumer business price erosion due to the continued customer mix shift towards home centers and mass merchants; (iii) Fastening Systems price erosion associated with intensified generic nail competition as well as a strategy shift to large distributors and away from smaller customers; (iv) a reduction in Last In, First Out (LIFO) related inventory benefit in 2002 versus 2001; (v) increased inventory loss provisions; (vi) and lower retirement plan income. These issues were offset, to some extent, by favorable material and other productivity variances, as well as acquisitions which contributed approximately $22 million to gross profit in 2002. Included in gross profit for 2002 were $13 million of charges related to MacDirect and Fastening Systems inventories. Gross profit in 2001 included $13 million of charges related to business repositioning initiatives within the Tools segment and the disposition of inventories principally from discontinued manufacturing plants and SKUs. Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) from continuing operations, inclusive of the provision for doubtful accounts, were $638 million, or 23.8% of net sales in 2003, compared to $526 million, or 22.1% of net sales, in the prior year. The increase relates to $70 million of incremental expenses from acquisitions, $25 million of receivable losses associated with the MacDirect exit, $8 million of costs related to the retirement of the Companys CEO, higher retirement plan costs, and the negative impact from foreign currency translation. SG&A expenses from continuing operations were $526 million or 22.1% of net sales in 2002 compared to $553 million or 23.1% of net sales in 2001. The Company reduced spending in many functions, particularly selling expenses in Mac Tools as a result of lower retail distributor headcount. There was a $12 million decline in the provision for doubtful accounts mainly attributable to a decrease in Mac Tools provisions due to lower sales as compared with 2001 and the mix shift from retail to wholesale sales which involve reduced credit risk. These favorable items more than offset a decrease in retirement plan income in 2002. Included in SG&A for 2002 is $10 million in charges from severance and related expenses ($8 million) and Mac Tools receivable losses ($2 million). SG&A expenses in 2001 included $8 million in charges from business repositioning and additional severance charges apart from the restructuring initiatives. Net interest expense from continuing operations for 2003 was $28 million, an increase of $4 million from $24 million in 2002. This increase was from higher borrowings primarily for acquisitions, partially offset by lower interest rates. Net interest expense from continuing operations for 2002 was $24 million, down slightly from $26 million in 2001. The decrease was a result of lower interest rates and weighted average debt levels in 2002. Other net from continuing operations was $40 million in expense for 2003 compared to $9 million in income for 2002. The increase is primarily the result of an $18 million gain in 2002 from the U.S. pension settlement, $12 million of higher losses in 2003 related to the Companys MacAdvantage 9 financing program, a $6 million loss on the sale of the Mac Tools distributor receivable portfolio in 2003, increased intangible amortization expense of $10 million in 2003 associated with acquisitions, and $11 million in income from an environmental settlement with an insurance carrier in 2002, which was offset by a $2 million increase in other environmental expense. Other net from continuing operations was $9 million in income for 2002 and 2001, however, there were some significant charges and credits that were recorded in each year. The 2002 amount includes an $18 million gain from the U.S. pension settlement, $8 million in fixed asset impairment losses, and $11 million in income from an environmental settlement with an insurance carrier, which was offset by a $2 million increase in other environmental expense. The 2001 amount includes a $29 million U.S. pension plan curtailment gain and a charge of $2 million related to Mac Tools business repositionings. There was no goodwill amortization expense in 2002, due to adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 "Goodwill and Intangible Assets", while goodwill amortization was $8 million in 2001. The Companys effective income tax rate from continuing operations for 2003 was 27% as compared to 32% for 2002 and 33% for 2001. The tax rate decreases reflect the continued benefit of a higher percentage of taxable income in countries with lower statutory rates, primarily in Europe, Israel, and the Far East. The 2003 effective income tax rate was affected further by the tax benefit from the Operation 15 charges which were predominately U.S. based. The 2003 and 2002 income taxes reflect favorable foreign tax developments that reduced income taxes by $2 million and $6 million, respectively. The 2002 favorable development was offset by the impact of non deductible excise tax associated with the termination of the defined benefit pension plan. In addition, the Company recorded a non recurring tax benefit in 2001 amounting to $3 million. Business Segment Results The Company utilizes operating profit, which is defined as Net sales minus Cost of sales and SG&A, inclusive of the Provision for doubtful accounts, and its percentage of Net sales as measurements to evaluate the profitability of each segment. Tools 2003 2002 2001 (Millions of Dollars) Net sales $ 1,975 $ 1,955 $ 2,008 Operating profit $ 163 $ 209 $ 267 % of Net sales 8.3 % 10.7 % 13.3 % Tools sales in 2003 increased 1% as compared to 2002. The sales volume increased slightly as a result of strong fourth quarter 2003 demand in the U.S. Hand Tools and Mechanics Tools businesses and favorable foreign currency translation due primarily to the European currencies, offset partially by declining sales from the termination of the MacDirect program, and industrial and consumer channel customers inventory corrections in the first half of 2003. Tools operating profit was impacted by the charges previously mentioned totaling $55 million in 2003 and $28 million in 2002. The remaining $19 million decrease in operating profit is primarily due to higher retirement plan costs, shift in business mix, and additional price erosion in 2003. Tools sales declined 2.7% in 2002 as compared to 2001. The sales decrease was mainly the result of price erosion and unfavorable channel mix in several businesses, and the Mechanics Tools plant consolidation previously mentioned, offset by $23 million in higher sales from acquisitions. Tools operating profit was impacted by the charges previously mentioned totaling $28 million in 2002 and $15 million in 2001. The remaining $45 million decline in operating profit was primarily attributable to the previously detailed Mechanics Tools domestic plant consolidation and internal product sourcing matters, price concessions in the consumer and Fastening Systems businesses, lower Last In, First Out (LIFO) related inventory valuation change in 2002 as compared with 2001, and increased inventory loss provisions. Cost structure improvements including shifting production to low cost countries and SG&A cost reductions were more than offset by the above items. 10 Doors 2003 2002 2001 (Millions of Dollars) Net sales from continuing operations $ 703 $ 429 $ 386 Operating profit from continuing operations $ 92 $ 55 $ 42 % of Net sales 13.0 % 12.8 % 10.8 % Doors sales from continuing operations increased by $274 million in 2003, a 64% increase. Acquisitions, primarily Best Access, contributed $255 million, or a 59% increase of net sales. The organic sales volume increased due to expanding service operations and share gains at national accounts in the Access Technologies business. Acquired companies contributed $55 million to operating profit in 2003, offset to some extent by higher retirement plan costs. Doors sales increased 11.2% in 2002, primarily due to the Best Access and Senior Technologies acquisitions. Increases in Hardware and Access Technologies organic sales were offset by declines in Home Decor. Operating profit was 12.8% of net sales as compared to 10.8% for 2001. Acquired companies contributed $8 million to operating profit in 2002. The remaining increase in operating profit reflects favorable production costs in low cost countries and lower SG&A expenses. The severance charges related to the Doors segment were $1 million in 2002 and $5 million in 2001. Restructuring Activities In 2003, the Company recorded $50 million in restructuring and asset impairment charges for the Operation 15 initiative. These charges consisted of $12 million for severance, $27 million of asset impairments and $11 million of other exit costs related to the exit from the Companys MacDirect retail channel. The asset impairments generally relate to assets which are idle mainly as a result of restructuring initiatives and accordingly their book value has been written down to fair value. The Company also recorded $67 million in charges for other exit costs and CEO retirement costs. These charges include $13 million in impaired inventories related to the planned closure of a U.S. distribution facility, $8 million in SG&A for compensation and benefit costs associated with the CEOs retirement, $3 million in other SG&A charges, and $43 million of costs related to the Companys exit from the MacDirect retail channel. In the first quarter of 2003, the Company recorded $3 million in restructuring reserves for new initiatives, mainly in the Tools segment, pertaining to the further reduction of its cost structure, primarily for severance related obligations. In June 2002 and September 2001, $8 million and $5 million in severance charges were recorded, respectively, as the Company continued to rationalize its headcount to provide further SG&A expense reductions. These charges were classified within SG&A expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These actions resulted in the termination of approximately 200 selling and administrative employees in each year. As of December 28, 2002, no accrual remained as all of the severance has been expended. In 2001, the Company undertook initiatives to reduce its cost structure and executed several business repositionings intended to improve its competitiveness. These actions resulted in the closure of 13 facilities and a net employment reduction of approximately 2,200 production, selling and administrative people. As a result, the Company recorded $72 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges. The charges for asset impairments were primarily related to manufacturing and other assets that were retired and disposed of as a result of manufacturing facility closures. 11 At January 3, 2004, the restructuring and asset impairment reserve balance was $16 million, which the Company expects to be fully expended by the end of 2004. A summary of the Companys restructuring reserves for the years ended December 28, 2002 to January 3, 2004 is as follows: 2002 Charges Usage 2003 (Millions of Dollars) Operation 15 Severance $ &mdash; $ 12 $ (9 ) $ 3 Asset Impairments &mdash; 27 (18 ) 9 Other &mdash; 11 (8 ) 3 Q1 2003 Severance &mdash; 3 (3 ) &mdash; Pre 2003 Severance 6 (6 ) &mdash; Other 3 (2 ) 1 $ 9 $ 53 $ (46 ) $ 16 As of January 3, 2004, 86 manufacturing and distribution facilities have been closed as a result of the restructuring initiatives since 1997. In 2003, 2002 and 2001, approximately 1,100, 1,000 and 2,100 employees have been terminated as a result of restructuring initiatives, respectively. Severance payments of $18 million, $26 million and $42 million and other exit payments of $10 million, $4 million and $4 million were made in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Write offs of impaired assets were $18 million, $6 million and $8 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity, Sources and Uses of Capital The Companys primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and borrowings under various credit facilities. The Company has historically generated strong cash flows from operations. In 2003, cash flow from operations was $464 million, as compared to $285 million in 2002. The increase is the result of working capital improvements from receivables of $22 million and inventories of $24 million, cash proceeds of approximately $40 million from the sale of the Mac Tools distributor receivable portfolio, income tax payment deferrals and refunds aggregating $57 million, and $17 million in lower cash payments related to restructuring and other charges in 2003 versus 2002. In 2002, cash flows from operations were $285 million as compared to $222 million in 2001. In 2002, the Company received a gross pension settlement of $115 million; an ongoing U.S. defined contribution plan was pre funded with $29 million, and excise and income taxes totaling $48 million were paid, providing a net $38 million cash inflow from the pension settlement. Additionally, the Company renegotiated its payment practices with a major customer enabling acceleration of accounts receivable collections by approximately $30 million. Cash payments related to restructuring and other charges of $42 million in 2002 were comparable to 2001. Capital expenditures were $52 million in 2002 as compared to $73 million in 2001. The Company incurred higher capital expenditures in 2001 for "The Stanley Learning Center" (a major addition at world headquarters for the training and development of employees), investment in various plants including movement of production to low cost countries, and increased costs for software development and acquisitions as the Company expanded the infrastructure of its systems. During 2003, the Company made $260 million in payments on borrowings. In the second quarter of 2003, the Company repurchased 3.9 million shares of common stock and agreed to settle the remainder of its equity hedge through the repurchase of 4.1 million shares over the next four years. The 3.9 million share repurchase was made with $100 million of cash and increased commercial paper borrowings while the 4.1 million share repurchase involved $113 million of term debt. These 12 repurchases of shares under the equity hedge contract, repayment of debt and currency fluctuation, resulted in a $20 million decrease in the Companys short term and long term borrowings. In 2002, the Company received $338 million in net proceeds from issuance of long term debt, and disbursed $356 million for business acquisitions. The Company made $154 million in payments on borrowings. These debt proceeds and repayments, in addition to debt issuance costs and currency fluctuations, resulted in a $220 million increase in the Companys short term and long term borrowings. The Company has unused short (364 day) and long term (multi year) credit arrangements with several banks to borrow up to $350 million at the lower of prime or money market rates. Of this amount, $100 million is long term. In addition, the Company has short term lines of credit with numerous foreign banks aggregating $67 million, of which the entire amount was available at January 3, 2004. Short term arrangements are reviewed annually for renewal. Of the long term and short term lines, $350 million is available to support the Companys commercial paper program. In addition to these lines of credit, the Company maintains a facility designed for the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable for purposes of additional liquidity. As of January 3, 2004, the Companys maximum available funds under this arrangement were $87 million, of which the Company had utilized $54 million. The Company also has numerous assets, predominantly vehicles and equipment, under a one year term renewable U.S. master personal property lease. Residual value obligations, which approximate the fair value of the related assets, under this master lease were $35 million at January 3, 2004. The Company does not anticipate any material liabilities associated with these transactions. The following summarizes the Companys significant contractual obligations and commitments that impact its liquidity. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS Payments Due by Period Total &lt; 1 year 2 3 yrs 4 5 yrs &gt; 5 yrs (Millions of Dollars) Long term Debt $ 692 $ 158 $ 64 $ 245 $ 225 Operating Leases 82 21 28 19 14 Unconditional Purchase Commitments 14 9 5 &mdash; &mdash; Other Long Term Obligations 32 5 9 7 11 Service Contract and ESOP Obligations 55 20 30 5 &mdash; Total Contractual Cash Obligations $ 875 $ 213 $ 136 $ 276 $ 250 Included in the table above are $3 million of unconditional purchase commitments for the entry door business that were assumed by the buyer upon the sale of this discontinued operation in March, 2004. Other long term obligations primarily relate to deferred compensation commitments to executives. OTHER COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS Amounts of Commitments Expiration Per Period Total &lt; 1 year 2 3 yrs 4 5 yrs &gt; 5 yrs (Millions of Dollars) U.S. Lines of Credit $ 350 $ 250 $ 100 $ &mdash; $ &mdash; International Lines of Credit 67 67 &mdash; &mdash; Total Commercial Commitments $ 417 $ 317 $ 100 $ &mdash; $ &mdash; Short term borrowings, long term debt and lines of credit are explained in detail within Note I Long Term Debt and Financing Arrangements of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. Operating leases and other commercial commitments are explained in detail in Note R Commitments of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. 13 The Company believes that its dividend is an important factor in generating returns for its shareowners. The Companys stated long term policy is to increase dividends by approximately one half the Companys earnings growth rate, ultimately reaching a dividend payout ratio of 25%. Dividend increases are considered periodically in light of this policy and other considerations. Dividends increased 4.0% in 2003, 5.3% in 2002 and 4.4% in 2001. The Company plans to use a significant portion of free cash flow (operating cash flow less dividends and capital expenditures) to fund future acquisitions in commercial and industrial markets. Market Risk Market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Exposure to foreign currency risk results because the Company, through its global businesses, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. The Companys predominant exposures are in European, Canadian and Asian currencies. Certain cross currency trade flows arising from sales and procurement activities are consolidated prior to obtaining risk protection, primarily purchased options. The Company is thus able to capitalize on its global positioning by taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures to reduce the cost of purchasing protection. At times, the Company also enters into forward exchange contracts and purchased options to reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of non functional currency denominated receivables and payables, predominately affiliate transactions. Gains and losses from these hedging instruments offset the gains or losses on the underlying net exposures, assets and liabilities being hedged. Management determines the nature and extent of currency hedging activities, and in certain cases, may elect to allow certain currency exposures to remain unhedged. The Company has also entered into several cross currency interest rate swaps, to provide a partial hedge of the net investments in certain subsidiaries and better match the cash flows of operations to debt service requirements. Sensitivity to foreign currency exposure risk from these financial instruments at the end of 2003 would have been immaterial based on the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in all currencies. The Companys exposure to interest rate risk results from its outstanding debt obligations, short term investments and derivative financial instruments employed in the management of its debt portfolio. The debt portfolio is managed to achieve capital structure targets and reduce the overall cost of borrowing by using a combination of fixed and floating rate debt as well as interest rate swaps, caps and cross currency interest rate swaps. The Companys primary exposure to interest rate risk comes from its floating rate debt in the U.S. and Europe and is fairly represented by changes in LIBOR rates. At January 3, 2004, the result of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in short term LIBOR rates would not have resulted in a material impact on the pre tax profit of the Company. Fluctuations in the fair value of the Companys common stock affect ESOP expense as well as diluted shares outstanding as discussed in the U.S. Pension and ESOP section of Management Discussion and Analysis. The Company has access to financial resources and borrowing capabilities around the world. There are no material instruments within the debt structure that would accelerate payment requirements due to a change in credit rating, and no significantly restrictive covenants. The Company believes that its strong financial position, operating cash flows and borrowing capacity provide the financial flexibility necessary to continue its record of annual dividend payments, to invest in the routine needs of its businesses, to make strategic acquisitions and to fund other initiatives encompassed by its growth strategy. OTHER MATTERS Environmental The Company incurs costs related to environmental issues as a result of various laws and regulations governing current operations as well as the remediation of previously contaminated sites. Future laws 14 and regulations are expected to be increasingly stringent and will likely increase the Companys expenditures related to routine environmental matters. The Company accrues for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts in accordance with appropriate accounting guidelines which address probability and the ability to reasonably estimate future costs. The liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances become better defined or remediation efforts and their costs can be better estimated. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future environmental costs, the Company believes that any sum it may pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of the amounts recorded will not have a materially adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Refer to Note T Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information on environmental liabilities and related cash flows. U.S. Pension and ESOP In June 2002, the Company recorded an $18 million pre tax pension settlement gain in other net. This involved the termination and settlement of the primary U.S. salaried employee plan as well as settlement of most of the liabilities in the ongoing plan for hourly employees. In addition to the settlement gain, the Company recorded $8 million of operating income related to these plans in 2002, whereas in 2003 the ongoing hourly plan resulted in $2 million of expense. As detailed in Note M Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K, the Company has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) under which the ongoing U.S. defined contribution and 401(k) plans are funded. Overall ESOP expense is affected by the market value of Stanley stock on the monthly dates when shares are released. In 2003, the market value of shares released averaged $29.30 per share and the net ESOP expense was $9 million. In 2002, the market value of shares released averaged $39.62 per share and the net ESOP expense was negligible. The Company provides a 5% guaranteed rate of return on participant contributions made to the tax deferred savings plan (401K) prior to July 1998 when all contributions were invested in Stanley common stock. The value of the shares participants purchased prior to July 1998 along with the 5% cumulative guaranteed rate of return on Stanley common stock is known as an Investment Protection Account (IPA). Beginning in July 1998 the investment options for plan participant contributions were enhanced to include a variety of investment funds in addition to the Companys common stock, and there is no guaranteed rate of return to participants on any contributions made after that time. The IPA guarantee is included in the actuarial valuation of the ongoing U.S. pension plan. Payments related to the IPA guarantees, if they have any value, would be made to participants over a period of many years generally as they retire. In the event the market value of Stanley common stock declines, additional costs may be triggered by the IPA benefit guarantee. New Accounting Standards Refer to Note A Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements and the potential impact to the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial position. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Preparation of the Companys financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are described in Note A Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters with inherent uncertainty. The most significant areas involving management estimates are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ from managements estimates. 15 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Stanleys estimate for its allowance for doubtful accounts related to trade receivables is based on two methods. The amounts calculated from each of these methods are combined to determine the total amount reserved. First, the Company evaluates specific accounts where information indicates the customers may have an inability to meet financial obligations, such as bankruptcy. In these cases, the Company uses its judgment, based on the best available facts and circumstances, to record a specific reserve for those customers against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount expected to be collected. These specific reserves are reevaluated and adjusted as additional information is received. Second, a reserve is established for all customers based on a range of percentages applied to receivables aging categories. These percentages are based on historical collection and write off experience. If circumstances change, for example the occurrence of higher than expected defaults or a material adverse change in a major customers ability to meet its financial obligation to the Company, estimates of the recoverability of receivable amounts due could be reduced. Inventories &mdash; Lower of Cost or Market, Slow Moving and Obsolete U.S. inventories are generally valued at the lower of LIFO cost or market. The calculation of LIFO reserves, and therefore the net inventory valuation, is affected by inflation and deflation in inventory components. The Company ensures all inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market, and continually reviews the book value of discontinued product lines and SKUs to determine that these items are properly valued. The Company identifies these inventories and assesses the ability to dispose of them at a price greater than cost. If it is determined that cost is less than market value, then cost is used for inventory valuation. If market value is less than cost, then the Company writes down the related inventory to that value. If a write down to the current market value is necessary, the market value cannot be greater than the net realizable value, or ceiling (defined as selling price less costs to complete and dispose), and cannot be lower than the net realizable value less a normal profit margin, also called the floor. The Company also continually evaluates the composition of its inventory and identifies obsolete and or slow moving inventories. Inventory items identified as obsolete and or slow moving are evaluated to determine if reserves are required. If the Company is not able to achieve its expectations regarding net realizable value of inventory at its current value, reserves would have to be adjusted accordingly. Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company completed acquisitions in 2003 and 2002 valued at $23 million and $359 million, respectively. The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are recorded under the purchase method at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the underlying net assets of acquired businesses. The Company had recorded goodwill of $433 million at January 3, 2004. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment testing. The identification and measurement of goodwill and unamortized intangibles impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of reporting units. The estimates of fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available at the date of assessment, which primarily incorporate management assumptions about future cash flows. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in industry or market conditions or the rate and extent to which anticipated synergies or cost savings are realized with newly acquired entities. While the Company has not recorded intangibles impairment losses in several years, it is possible impairments may occur in the future in the event expected cash flows change significantly. Specifically, the Specialty Tools and Fastening Systems reporting units have been experiencing operating margin declines due to the depressed technology industry and intensified competition, respectively. In recent quarters, however, Fastening Systems operating margins have begun to improve. Specialty Tools and Fastening Systems had $73 million and $38 million, respectively, of recorded goodwill at January 3, 2004. There is potential for future goodwill impairment losses if Specialty Tools and Fastening Systems projected 16 profits and cash flows significantly decline from current levels. See Note G Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Property, Plant and Equipment (PP&E) The Company generally values PP&E at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Impairment losses are recorded when indicators of impairment, such as plant closures, are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount. The impairment loss is quantified by comparing the carrying amount of the assets to the weighted average discounted cash flows, which consider various possible outcomes for the disposition of the assets (i.e. sale, leasing, etc.). Primarily as a result of plant rationalization, certain facilities and equipment are not currently used in operations. The Company has recorded impairment losses related to unused assets and additional such losses may potentially occur in the future. Risk Insurance To some extent, the Company self insures for various business exposures. For domestic workers compensation and product liability, the Company generally purchases outside insurance coverage only for catastrophic losses ("stop loss" insurance). The two risk areas involving the most significant accounting estimates are workers compensation and product liability (liability for alleged injuries associated with the Companys products). Actuarial valuations performed by an outside risk insurance expert form the basis for workers compensation and product liability loss reserves recorded. The actuary contemplates the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors to determine the range of estimated reserve required. Risk insurance reserves are comprised of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts expected for development of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified by third party administrator specialists (insurance companies) for workers compensation and by in house legal counsel in consultation with outside attorneys for product liability. The cash outflows related to risk insurance claims are expected to occur over approximately 8 to 10 years, and the present value of expected claim payments is reserved. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of January 3, 2004 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. Income Taxes The future tax benefit arising from net deductible temporary differences and tax carryforwards is $84 million at January 3, 2004 and $108 million at December 28, 2002. Management believes earnings during the periods when the temporary differences become deductible will be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. For those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax carryforwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance is provided. The valuation allowance as of January 3, 2004 amounted to $21 million. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the Company estimates future taxable income, considering the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax loss carryforwards. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be impacted by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future taxable income levels. In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or a portion of its deferred tax assets in the future, the Company would reduce such amounts through a charge to income in the period in which that determination is made. Conversely, if the Company were to determine that it would be able to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net carrying amounts, the Company would decrease the recorded valuation allowance through an increase to income in the period in which that determination is made. See Note Q Income Taxes of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further discussion. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Companys off balance sheet arrangements include the following: 17 Receivable Securitizations The Company has agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, pools of accounts and notes receivables to a Qualified Special Purpose Entity (QSPE), which qualifies to be accounted for as an unconsolidated subsidiary. The entity is designed to facilitate the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable. Assets and related debt off balance sheet were both $54 million at January 3, 2004. The Company is responsible for servicing these accounts while the QSPE bears the risk of non collection. The proceeds from sales of eligible receivables to the QSPE were $21 million in 2003. There were no gains or losses on these sales. In 2003 the Company acquired a third partys interest in a Special Purpose Entity (SPE) which supports the Mac Tools extended financing programs. As a result, the entity became non qualifying and the net assets which consist primarily of notes receivable of $56.4 million at January 3, 2004 have been consolidated in the Companys balance sheet. No gains or losses related to sales to the Company were recorded. During 2003, the Company sold approximately $40 million of receivables of this portfolio to a third party. Synthetic Leases The Company is a party to synthetic leasing programs for two of its major distribution centers. The programs qualify as operating leases for accounting purposes, where only the monthly lease amount is recorded in the income statement and the liability and value of underlying assets are off balance sheet. The reasons for these programs are primarily to reduce overall cost and to retain flexibility. As of January 3, 2004, the estimated fair values of assets and remaining obligations for these two properties were $37 million and $28 million, respectively. CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995. Certain statements contained in this Annual Report to shareowners, including the statements regarding the Companys ability (i) to improve the overall profitability of the Companys operations; (ii) to offset the impact associated with the sale of the entry door business through three acquisitions; (iii) to offset anticipated commodity price inflation with other productivity improvements; (iv) to increase revenue; (v) to increase shareholder returns and dividends and (vi) to complete restructuring activities within existing restructuring and asset impairment reserves by the end of the third quarter are forward looking and are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors listed below and other factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. The Companys ability to achieve the results described above is dependent on (i) the success of the Companys efforts to efficiently and promptly integrate the announced acquisitions and the sales related thereto; (ii) the success of the Companys efforts to restructure its Mac Tools organization in order to return it to profitability, including, without limitation, the Companys ability to liquidate certain Mac Tools assets at a satisfactory price; (iii) the continued ability of the Company to access credit markets under satisfactory terms; (iv) the success of the Companys marketing and sales efforts; (v) continued improvements in productivity and cost reductions; (vi) the continued improvement in the payment terms under which the Company buys and sells goods, materials and products; (vii) the reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales; (viii) the success of recruiting programs and other efforts to maintain or expand overall Mac Tools truck count; (ix) the Companys ability to fulfill demand for its products in a timely manner; (x) the absence of increased pricing pressures from customers and competitors and the ability to defend market share in the face of price competition; (xi) the continued ability to effectively manage and defend litigation matters pending or asserted in the future against the Company; (xii) the absence of increasing commodity costs or the ability to reduce other costs to offset such increases and the availability of raw materials. The Companys ability to achieve the objectives discussed above will also be affected by external factors. These external factors include the continued consolidation of customers in consumer channels, 18 inventory management pressures of the Companys customers, changes in trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies and laws, inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange and interest rates on the competitiveness of products and the Companys debt program, the strength of the U.S. economy and the relative strength or weakness of foreign currencies, including but not limited to the Euro, Canadian dollar, the New Taiwan dollar and the Chinese Renminbi, war, terrorist activities, political unrest and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the Company operates. Unless required by applicable federal securities laws, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company incorporates by reference the material captioned "Market Risk" in Item 7 and the material in Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. 
 
