ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The financial and business analysis below provides information which the Company believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. This financial and business analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes. The following discussion and certain other sections of this Report contain statements reflecting the Companys views about its future performance and constitute "forward looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and markets in which the Company operates and managements beliefs and assumptions. Any statements contained herein (including without limitation statements to the effect that The Stanley Works or its management "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "plans" and similar expressions) that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth below under the heading "Cautionary Statements." The Company does not intend to update publicly any forward looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Company has continued to focus on a profitable growth strategy and to alter its portfolio of businesses. This strategy encompasses acquisitions and the reduction of risk associated with certain large customer concentrations. The Company believes this strategy will improve the overall profitability of operations over the long term. Over the next several years the Company anticipates more acquisitions will be made, particularly in the Industrial Tools and Security Solutions segments. The following events/matters (including acquisitions and divestitures related to this strategy) had a significant impact on the Companys financial performance in 2004 and 2003: &bull; In 2004, the acquisitions of Blick plc, CST/Berger, Frisco Bay Industries Ltd., ISR Solutions Inc., and one small security business were completed at the total cost of $322 million. Blick is a leading U.K. integrator of security systems, communication and time management solutions for the commercial and industrial sectors. CST/Berger is a designer and manufacturer of laser and optical leveling and measuring equipment. Frisco Bay is a leading Canadian provider of security systems and equipment for financial institutions, government agencies and major corporations. ISR is a North American electronic security integrator providing the U.S. federal government and commercial customers with access security systems design, installation and maintenance services. &bull; The Company sold its Home D&eacute;cor business during the fourth quarter of 2004 for $87 million, and, therefore, this business was reported as a discontinued operation for all periods. The after tax gain recorded on this transaction was $24 million. The Home D&eacute;cor business contributed $0.13, $0.07, and $0.15 of diluted earnings per share in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. Additionally, a small German business with annual sales of approximately $20 million, which manufactures primarily European private label paint rollers, was included in discontinued operations. The EPS impact of this business to the Company prior to divestiture was nominal. &bull; The Company experienced an unfavorable impact from unusually high levels of commodity price inflation (particularly steel) in 2004 and actively pursued price increases across its channels. These price increase efforts gradually gained acceptance throughout the year with the Companys customers. The effect of commodity inflation, and freight cost increases, was $75 million in 2004, of which approximately 60% was offset with related price increases to customers. Steel cost and other inflation impacts, partially offset by price increases, will 9 continue to have a substantial impact on the Company in 2005 and potentially beyond. The Company estimates the carryover impact in 2005 of this inflation at $40 45 million, of which approximately 80 85% will be offset with the aforementioned price increase carryover impact. These 2005 estimates assume no change in existing commodity price levels or the related customer price levels. &bull; The Company acquired several businesses, primarily Best Access which was completed in November 2002, which had a significant favorable impact on the Companys 2003 performance. The total cost of these acquisitions was $340 million. &bull; The Company entered into a definitive agreement during December 2003 to sell its Residential Entry Door business and, therefore, this business was reported as a discontinued operation for all periods. The $161 million sale was completed in the first quarter of 2004 and the after tax gain recorded was $95 million. The Residential Entry Door business contributed $0.13 and $0.17 of diluted earnings per share in 2003, and 2002, respectively. The impact in 2004 aside from the gain on the sale was nominal. &bull; The Company announced restructuring plans in April 2003 to improve the profitability of certain struggling businesses ("Operation 15"). The restructuring was completed in 2003 and included a workforce reduction of over 1,000 people, the exit from the Mac Tools retail channel ("MacDirect"), and the impairment of certain fixed assets and inventories related primarily to the future consolidation of two distribution facilities. &bull; The Company recognized $8 million in charges related to compensation payable to the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, John M. Trani, pertaining to his retirement effective December 31, 2003. These retirement costs were comprised of severance and pension as specified in an employment contract entered into in 2000. In 2004, the Company implemented a change to its segment reporting in response to the divestiture and acquisition activity which arose from the aforementioned strategy. The Companys operations are now classified into three business segments: Consumer Products, Industrial Tools, and Security Solutions. The Consumer Products segment manufactures and markets hand tools, consumer mechanics tools and storage units, and hardware. These products are sold to customers and distributed directly to retailers (including home centers, mass merchants, hardware stores, and retail lumber yards). The Industrial Tools segment manufactures and markets professional mechanic tools and storage systems, pneumatic tools and fasteners, assembly tool systems and specialty tools, hydraulic tools and electronic leveling tools. These products are sold to customers and distributed either directly or through third party distributors. The Security Solutions segment manufactures and markets automatic doors, door locking systems, commercial hardware and security access control systems, primarily through various direct sales forces. During 2004 and 2003, the strengthening of the Euro and other foreign currencies had a significant favorable impact on the translation of foreign currency denominated operating results into U.S. dollars. It is estimated that the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, including acquired companies, contributed $0.12 and $0.13 of continuing operations diluted earnings per share in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar may have a significant impact on future earnings. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Company has provided below a summary of its operating results at the consolidated level, followed by an overview of its business segment performance. Net Sales: Net sales from continuing operations were $3,043 million in 2004, as compared to $2,531 million in 2003, a 20% increase. Excluding 2004 acquisitions, organic sales increased 11% driven by 6% volume growth, improved pricing and favorable foreign currency impact. The volume growth is due to: increased industrial tool demand from favorable market conditions; improved order fulfillment and execution in several businesses; strong consumer hand and mechanics tool demand from home center and mass merchant customers; and increased Security revenues primarily due to share gains in 10 automated door products. The 2004 net sales volume performance was significant considering the Company had a 52 week 2004 reporting period versus a 53 week reporting period last year. Favorable foreign currency translation, primarily European, increased net sales by 2%. The impact of pricing resulted in a net sales increase of 3%, mainly as a result of the Company actively pursuing price increases to offset commodity inflation. Other pricing actions associated with more effective price management routines resulted in an additional $20 $25 million of benefit. Net sales from continuing operations were $2,531 million for 2003, as compared to $2,234 million in 2002, a 13% increase. Acquisitions contributed $266 million, or a 12% increase of net sales. Overall, organic sales volume declined 2%, offset by favorable foreign currency translation of 3% due primarily to the movement in European currencies. Organic sales volume declined mainly due to the termination of the MacDirect program under the Operation 15 initiative combined with customer inventory corrections in the industrial and consumer channels in the first half of 2003. These sales declines were partially offset by strong fourth quarter 2003 demand in U.S. hand and mechanics tools, and expanding service operations and share gains at national accounts in the automated doors operation. Significant Charges and Credits: In 2004, the Company recorded $4 million of pre tax restructuring costs in connection with specific personnel actions to streamline/reposition certain organizations, $4 million of impairment charges primarily associated with a 2004 information system strategy decision, and a $2 million provision for recent litigation. Additionally, an $8 million credit to income taxes was recorded as a result of favorable resolutions of tax audits, increased utilization of foreign net operating loss carry forwards and specific acquisition tax planning activities. In 2003, the Company recorded $108 million of pre tax restructuring costs, impairment charges, and other exit costs in connection with the Operation 15 initiative. Certain expenses totaling $8 million related to the retirement of the Companys former Chairman and CEO were recorded in addition to Operation 15 charges. In the first quarter of 2003, the Company recorded $3 million in restructuring reserves for initiatives pertaining to the further reduction of its cost structure, primarily for severance related obligations. A summary of the pre tax charges recorded in 2003 related to these matters is as follows: (Millions of Dollars) Operation 15 Mac Direct exit Inventory losses $ 7 Receivable losses 25 Other 21 Distribution facilities 13 Other 42 Total Operation 15 $ 108 Other severance 3 CEO retirement 8 Total $ 119 These charges were classified within the 2003 Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) Cost of sales &mdash; $20 million; (ii) SG&A and Provision for doubtful accounts &mdash; $37 million; (iii) Other net &mdash; $10 million; and (iv) Restructuring and asset impairment charges &mdash; $52 million. Additionally, the 2003 income taxes reflect favorable foreign tax developments that resulted in a credit of $2 million. In 2002, the Company reported a second quarter U.S. pension settlement pre tax gain of $18 million. Also in the second quarter, the Company incurred $8 million in severance and related expenses associated with selling, general and administrative cost reductions. In the third quarter, the Company reported a $6 million credit to income taxes related to a favorable foreign tax development. In the fourth quarter, the Company recorded $22 million in non cash charges for increased inventory and 11 receivable loss provisions and for specific manufacturing equipment impairments related to the following: (1) a reassessment of Mac Tools inventory and accounts receivable valuations, as a result of a then new retail control system; (2) an inventory valuation adjustment in Fastening Systems associated with cost estimation process improvements; and (3) impairment of certain fixed assets related primarily to the Wichita Falls and Dallas, Texas plants consolidation. Also in the fourth quarter the Company recorded $5.6 million of accounting corrections. These corrections relate primarily to expense capitalization and depreciation. Other significant credits in 2002 include $11 million in environmental income arising from a settlement with an insurance carrier recognized in the third and fourth quarters. These credits and charges were classified within the 2002 Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows: (i) Net sales &mdash; $1 million charge; (ii) Cost of sales &mdash; $17 million charge; (iii) SG&A expenses &mdash; $10 million charge; (iv) Other net &mdash; $21 million credit; and (v) Income taxes &mdash; $6 million credit. Gross Profit: The Company reported gross profit from continuing operations of $1,112 million, or 36% of net sales, in 2004, compared to $858 million, or 34% of net sales, in the prior year. The businesses acquired increased gross profit by $105 million. The remaining $149 million improvement was primarily attributed to increased sales volume discussed previously, gross profit rate improvement, and $20 million of inventory losses recorded in 2003 related to the termination of the MacDirect distribution model and the planned consolidation of two major distribution facilities in conjunction with Operation 15. The gross profit rate improvement was attributable to the carryover benefit of 2003 restructuring programs, volume leverage, favorable pricing and improved product mix. These benefits were partially offset by higher steel costs and other inflation. The Company experienced a significant impact from unusually high levels of commodity price inflation (particularly steel) in 2004. The Company has actively pursued price increases in many business channels to partially offset this negative impact. The effect of commodity inflation and freight increases was $75 million in 2004, of which approximately 60% was offset with related price increases to customers. Steel cost and other inflation increases, partially offset by price increases, will continue to have a substantial impact on the Company in 2005 and potentially beyond. The Company reported gross profit from continuing operations of $858 million, or 34% of net sales, in 2003, compared to $748 million, or 33% of net sales, in 2002. Excluding the $128 million favorable impact of acquisitions, gross profit declined slightly as compared with 2002 primarily due to organic sales volume declines discussed previously, $20 million of inventory losses recorded in conjunction with Operation 15, and higher retirement plan costs. These negatives were partially offset by favorable material and other efficiency variances. SG&A expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses from continuing operations, inclusive of the provision for doubtful accounts, were $694 million, or 23% of net sales in 2004, compared to $616 million, or 24% of net sales, in the prior year. The increase of $78 million was primarily attributed to acquired businesses that increased costs by $62 million, higher business portfolio SG&A spending levels in connection with the strong organic net sales increase, increased funding for brand support, Sarbanes Oxley compliance costs, and foreign currency translation. Additional factors impacting this comparison were accounts receivable losses of $25 million which related to the exiting of the MacDirect distribution model and $8 million of costs pertaining to the retirement of the Companys former CEO which were both recorded in 2003. Selling, general and administrative expenses from continuing operations, inclusive of the provision for doubtful accounts, were $616 million, or 24% of net sales in 2003, compared to $505 million, or 23% of net sales, in the prior year. The increase relates to $70 million of incremental expenses from acquisitions, $25 million of receivable losses associated with the MacDirect exit, $8 million of costs related to the retirement of the Companys former CEO, higher retirement plan costs, and the negative impact from foreign currency translation. Interest and Other net: Net interest expense from continuing operations in 2004 was $34 million, an increase of $6 million over 2003. The 2003 net interest expense from continuing operations represents a $4 million increase from the $24 million in 2002. The three year trend of increases was driven by higher borrowings due to the acquisitions discussed previously, partially offset by lower interest rates. 12 Other net from continuing operations represented $47 million of expense in 2004, an increase of nearly $8 million from expense of $39 million in 2003. The increase is primarily the result of increased intangible amortization expense of $10 million associated with recent acquisitions. Additionally, there was a significant cost increase and decrease which offset one another &ndash; a $10 million increase in currency losses from 2003 levels was offset by reduced losses on the MacAdvantage finance program in 2004 versus 2003. Other net from continuing operations was $39 million in expense for 2003 compared to $9 million in income for 2002. The increase in costs is primarily the result of an $18 million gain in 2002 from the U.S. pension settlement, $12 million of higher losses in 2003 related to the Companys MacAdvantage financing program, a $6 million loss on the sale of the Mac Tools distributor receivable portfolio (an Operation 15 initiative) in 2003, increased intangible amortization expense of $10 million in 2003 associated with acquisitions, and $11 million in income from an environmental settlement with an insurance carrier in 2002, which was slightly offset by a $2 million increase in other environmental expense. Income Taxes: The Companys effective income tax rate from continuing operations for 2004 was 27% as compared to 26% for 2003 and 31% for 2002. The tax rate for the past two years reflects the continued benefit of a higher percentage of taxable income in countries with lower statutory rates, primarily in Europe and the Far East. Additionally, an $8 million credit to income taxes was recorded in 2004 as a result of favorable resolutions of tax audits, increased utilization of foreign net operating loss carry forwards and specific acquisition tax planning activities. The 2003 effective income tax rate was affected further by the tax benefit from the Operation 15 charges which were predominately U.S. based. Additionally, the 2003 and 2002 income taxes reflect favorable foreign tax developments that reduced income taxes by $2 million and $6 million, respectively. The 2002 favorable development was offset by the impact of non deductible excise tax associated with the termination of a defined benefit pension plan. Business Segment Results: The Company utilizes operating profit, which is defined as net sales minus cost of sales and SG&A, inclusive of the provision for doubtful accounts, and its percentage of net sales as measurements to evaluate the profitability of each segment. Segment operating profit excludes interest income, interest expense, other net, restructuring charges and asset impairments, as well as income tax expense. Consumer Products (Millions of Dollars) 2004 2003 2002 Net sales from continuing operations $ 1,073 $ 958 $ 911 Operating profit from continuing operations $ 175 $ 149 $ 130 % of Net sales 16.3 % 15.6 % 14.3 % Consumer Products net sales from continuing operations in 2004 represented a 12% increase from 2003, driven by the aforementioned strength in home center and mass merchant channels in the U.S. and favorable currency impacts in Europe. Of this 12% increase, volume represented 7% which was driven by growth in hand tools, consumer mechanics tools and storage units as a result of improved order fulfillment, increased brand support, and higher market demand, which was partially offset by volume declines in hardware products. Currency represented 4% and pricing 1% of the net sales increase. Operating margin improved 70 basis points primarily due to improved operating leverage from higher sales volumes, pricing and favorable product mix; however these factors were partially offset by the previously mentioned commodity cost inflation (primarily steel and resin), increased brand support and Sarbanes Oxley compliance costs. Additionally, 2003 consumer products operating profit was impacted by $3 million in Operation 15 charges previously mentioned. Consumer Products net sales from continuing operations in 2003 increased 5% as compared to 2002. The sales increased primarily from favorable foreign currency translation due mainly to European currencies. The volume increased slightly as a result of strong fourth quarter 2003 demand in the U.S. Hand Tools business which was offset partially by consumer channel customers inventory corrections in the first half of 2003. Consumer products operating profit was impacted by the charges previously mentioned totaling $3 million in 2003 and $6 million in 2002. The remaining $16 million increase in 13 operating profit is primarily due to improved shift in business mix and favorable material and productivity variances, partially offset by higher retirement plan costs and further price erosion in 2003 versus 2002. Industrial Tools (Millions of Dollars) 2004 2003 2002 Net sales $ 1,292 $ 1,098 $ 1,111 Operating profit $ 132 $ 17 $ 69 % of Net sales 10.2 % 1.5 % 6.2 % Industrial Tools net sales increased 18% from 2003. Excluding the CST/Berger acquisition, organic sales increased 12%. Volume represented 6% of the organic sales increase; and price and currency were 4% and 2%, respectively. This organic volume improvement was the result of better economic conditions, improved management execution in several businesses and improved order fulfillment related to industrial mechanic tool, assembly tool, specialty tool, and hydraulic tool products. Mac Tools net sales decreased 4% as sluggish market conditions impacted this business in the fourth quarter of 2004 combined with traditional distributor additions and higher route average sales only partially offsetting the anticipated decline from last years MacDirect exit. The majority of the price increase was due to the Companys actions in response to commodity inflation as previously discussed. The significant improvement in the 2004 operating profit and margin rate is the result of charges in 2003 totaling $52 million mainly from receivable and inventory losses associated with the MacDirect exit, as well as higher sales volume, substantial improvement in the margin performances of Mac Tools and industrial mechanics tools as a result of the carryover benefits from prior year restructuring programs, and the acquisition of CST/Berger. These favorable factors were partially offset by the previously mentioned commodity cost inflation, as approximately two thirds of the total companys commodity inflation (net of price recovery) impacted this segment, and Sarbanes Oxley compliance costs. Industrial Tools net sales in 2003 decreased 1% as compared to 2002. The sales volume decreased as a result of declining sales from the termination of the MacDirect program under the Operation 15 initiative and industrial channel customers inventory corrections in the first half of 2003, offset partially by strong fourth quarter 2003 demand in the U.S. mechanics tools business and favorable foreign currency translation due primarily to the European currencies. Industrial Tools operating profit was impacted by the charges previously mentioned totaling $52 million in 2003 and $21 million in 2002. The remaining $21 million decrease in 2003 operating profit is primarily due to significant price erosion and lack of manufacturing productivity (primarily in the fastening business), unfavorable shifts in business mix, and higher retirement plan costs. Security Solutions (Millions of Dollars) 2004 2003 2002 Net sales $ 678 $ 474 $ 212 Operating profit $ 111 $ 76 $ 43 % of Net sales 16.3 % 16.0 % 20.3 % Security Solutions sales increased 43% in 2004. Excluding the acquisitions (primarily Blick plc, Frisco Bay Industries Ltd., and ISR Solutions Inc.), organic sales increased 6%. Sales volume represented 4% of the organic increase and price was 2%. The organic volume improvement was due to strength in the supply and service of automatic commercial door systems in access technologies. Best Access sales volume was virtually unchanged compared to 2003 levels while incoming orders increased, reflecting a shift in mix toward longer order cycle electronic access systems. The operating profit increase is primarily attributed to the impact of 2004 acquisitions. Operating margin was relatively flat versus 2003, primarily attributable to favorable business mix and pricing actions with customers; these favorable impacts were offset by increased commodity inflation, field productivity issues at Best Access, Sarbanes Oxley compliance costs and key strategic consulting expenditures. Security Solutions sales increased by $262 million in 2003. Excluding the impact of acquisitions (primarily Best Access) totaling $255 million, Security Solutions organic sales increased 3% and volume generated the majority of this increase. The organic volume improvement was due to strength 14 in the supply and service of automatic commercial door systems in access technologies, partially offset by market share declines in the commercial hardware product line. Operating profit increased significantly primarily as a result of acquisitions. RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recorded $8 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges &mdash; $4 million of restructuring costs in connection with specific personnel actions to streamline/reposition certain organizations primarily in the consumer and industrial segments; and $4 million of asset impairment charges primarily associated with a 2004 information system strategy decision. In 2003, the Company recorded $49 million in restructuring and asset impairment charges for the Operation 15 initiative. These charges consisted of $12 million for severance, $26 million of asset impairments and $11 million of other exit costs related to the exit from the Companys MacDirect retail channel. The asset impairments generally relate to assets which are idle mainly as a result of restructuring initiatives and accordingly their book value has been written down to fair value. In 2003, the Company also recorded $3 million in restructuring charges for initiatives pertaining to the further reduction of its cost structure, primarily for severance related obligations. As of January 3, 2004, no accrual remained as all of the severance had been expended. At January 1, 2005, the restructuring and asset impairment reserve balance was $5 million, which the Company expects to be fully expended by the end of 2005. A summary of the Companys restructuring reserves for the years ended January 3, 2004 to January 1, 2005 is as follows: 2003 Charges Usage 2004 (Millions of Dollars) Q4 2004 Severance $ &mdash; $ 4 $ (3 ) $ 1 Asset impairments &mdash; 4 (4 ) &mdash; Operation 15 Severance 3 &mdash; (1 ) 2 Asset impairments 9 &mdash; (7 ) 2 Other 3 &mdash; (3 ) &mdash; Pre 2003 Other 1 &mdash; (1 ) &mdash; $ 16 $ 8 $ (19 ) $ 5 For the three years ended January 1, 2005, 21 facilities have been closed as a result of restructuring initiatives. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, approximately 160, 1,100 and 1,000 employees have been terminated as a result of restructuring initiatives, respectively. Severance payments of $4 million, $18 million and $26 million and other exit costs of $4 million, $10 million and $4 million were made in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Write offs of impaired assets were $11 million, $18 million and $6 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Integration of certain acquisitions requires reduction of redundant personnel, closure of facilities, and other restructuring actions related to the acquired businesses. In such cases, a restructuring accrual is recorded for actions identified in integration strategy plans initially developed by the Company as of the acquisition date, with a resulting increase to goodwill. As integration strategies are executed, the Company monitors the previously established restructuring accruals and makes adjustments to such accruals to the extent actual expenditures differ from the estimated accruals. Adjustments recorded to previously established restructuring accruals until the time integration plans are fully executed, not to exceed one year from date of original acquisition, are reflected in the final goodwill amount included in the purchase price allocation. Adjustments made subsequent to the finalization of integration 15 strategies, or after one year from the date of original acquisition, are reflected in the Companys results of operations. The Company recorded $5 million in restructuring reserves, primarily for severance, in connection with its first quarter 2004 acquisitions. Restructuring reserves pertaining to the 2002 Best acquisition were $6 million, comprised of $5 million for severance and $1 million in exit costs primarily for non cancelable leases. All but $0.3 million of these acquisition related reserves were expended by January 1, 2005. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity, Sources and Uses of Capital: The Companys primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and borrowings under various credit facilities. The Company has historically generated strong cash flows from operations. In 2004, cash flow from operations was $372 million, as compared to $464 million in 2003. Working capital improvements were $45 million higher in 2003 as compared with 2004. In addition, in 2003 there were favorable impacts of $57 million for income tax deferrals and refunds, as well as approximately $40 million in cash proceeds from the sale of the Mac Tools distributor financing portfolio which did not reoccur in 2004. These items were partially offset by improved net earnings from continuing operations and lower cash payments related to restructuring and other charges in 2004 versus 2003. In 2003, cash flow from operations was $464 million, as compared to $285 million in 2002. The increase is the result of working capital improvements of $32 million as compared to 2002 improvements, primarily from receivables and inventories, cash proceeds of approximately $40 million from the sale of the Mac Tools distributor financing portfolio, income tax payment deferrals and refunds aggregating $57 million, and $17 million in lower cash payments related to restructuring and other charges in 2003 versus 2002. Capital expenditures were $55 million in 2004, $39 million in 2003, and $52 million in 2002. The Company incurred higher capital expenditures in 2004 for investment in various plants including manufacturing productivity projects, movement of production to low cost countries, and increased costs for software development and acquisitions as the Company continues to improve the infrastructure of its systems. Free cash flow, as defined in the table below, was $317 million in 2004 and $425 million in 2003, considerably exceeding net earnings from continuing operations in a period of continued strong sales volume growth. The Company believes free cash flow is an important measure of its liquidity, as well as its ability to fund future growth and provide a return to the shareowners. 2004 2003 2002 (Millions of Dollars) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 372 $ 464 $ 285 Less: capital expenditures (48 ) (31 ) (37 ) Less: capitalized software (7 ) (8 ) (15 ) Free cash flow $ 317 $ 425 $ 233 The Company received net proceeds from sales of the Residential Entry Door and Home D&eacute;cor businesses of $205 million in 2004, and disbursed $301 million for business acquisitions. Additionally, as a result of the previously mentioned strong free cash flow from operations, the Company made $133 million in net payments on borrowings resulting in a 2004 year end 32.4% debt to capital ratio. This ratio was 43.6% at the end of 2003. The Company believes it has achieved its deleveraging goals and is well positioned for capitalizing on future acquisition opportunities. During 2003, the Company made $260 million in payments on borrowings. In the second quarter 2003, the Company repurchased 3.9 million shares of common stock and agreed to settle the remainder of its equity hedge through the repurchase of 4.1 million shares over the next four years. The 3.9 million share repurchase was made with $100 million of cash and increased commercial paper borrowings while the 4.1 million share repurchase involved $113 million of term debt. No open market purchase 16 of shares occurred. These repurchases of shares under the equity hedge contract, repayment of debt and currency fluctuation, resulted in a $20 million decrease in the Companys short term and long term borrowings. In 2002, the Company received $338 million in net proceeds from issuance of long term debt, and disbursed $356 million for business acquisitions. The Company made $154 million in payments on borrowings. In 2004, the Company took advantage of favorable market conditions by refinancing its 364 day and long term (multi year) credit arrangements, creating a long term credit facility with several U.S. banks to borrow up to $400 million at the lower of prime or money market rates. This long term credit facility matures in October 2009. In addition, the Company has short term lines of credit with numerous foreign banks aggregating $161 million, of which $120 million was available at January 1, 2005. Short term arrangements are reviewed annually for renewal. Of the $561 million aggregate credit lines, $400 million is available to support the Companys commercial paper program. In addition to these lines of credit, the Company maintains a facility designed for the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable for purposes of additional liquidity. As of January 1, 2005, the Companys maximum available funds under this arrangement were $122 million, of which $12 million was utilized. In 2003, the Company filed a Shelf Registration in the amount of $900 million. This filing represents a prospectus which, if accompanied by a prospectus supplement, would allow the Company to offer, issue and sell, together or separately, debt, equity and other securities. The Company also has numerous assets, predominantly vehicles and equipment, under a one year term renewable U.S. master personal property lease. Residual value obligations, which approximate the fair value of the related assets, under this master lease were $24 million at January 1, 2005. The Company does not anticipate any material liabilities associated with these transactions. Contractual Obligations: The following summarizes the Companys significant contractual obligations and commitments that impact its liquidity. Payments Due by Period Total &lt; 1 Year 2 3 Yrs 4 5 Yrs &gt; 5 Yrs (Millions of Dollars) Long term debt $ 537 $ 55 $ 270 $ 7 $ 205 Operating leases 97 22 32 18 25 Deferred compensation 34 3 8 6 17 Material purchase commitments 54 9 18 18 9 Outsourcing and other obligations 34 15 16 3 &mdash; Total contractual cash obligations $ 756 $ 104 $ 344 $ 52 $ 256 Other Commercial Commitments: Amounts of Commitments Expiration Per Period Total &lt; 1 Year 2 3 Yrs 4 5 Yrs &gt; 5 Yrs (Millions of Dollars) U.S. lines of credit $ 400 $ &mdash; $ &mdash; $ 400 $ &mdash; International lines of credit 161 161 &mdash; &mdash; &mdash; Total commercial commitments $ 561 $ 161 $ &mdash; $ 400 $ &mdash; 17 Short term borrowings, long term debt and lines of credit are explained in detail within Note I Long Term Debt and Financing Arrangements; and operating leases and other commercial commitments are explained in detail in Note R Commitments and Guarantees of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15. The Company believes that its dividend is an important factor in generating returns for the shareowners. The Companys long term policy is to increase dividends by up to one half of the Companys earnings growth rate, ultimately reaching a payout ratio of 25% of net earnings. Dividend increases are determined periodically in light of this policy and other considerations. Dividends increased 4.9% in 2004, 4.0% in 2003 and 5.3% in 2002. The Company plans to use a significant portion of free cash flow after dividends (operating cash flow less dividends and capital expenditures) to fund future acquisitions in commercial and industrial markets. MARKET RISK Market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Exposure to foreign currency risk results because the Company, through its global businesses, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. The Companys predominant exposures are in European, Canadian and Asian currencies, including the Chinese RMB. Certain cross currency trade flows arising from sales and procurement activities are consolidated and netted prior to obtaining risk protection, primarily purchased options. The Company is thus able to capitalize on its global positioning by taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures to reduce the cost of purchasing protection. At times, the Company also enters into forward exchange contracts and purchased options to reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of non functional currency denominated receivables and payables, predominately affiliate transactions. Gains and losses from these hedging instruments offset the gains or losses on the underlying net exposures, assets and liabilities being hedged. Management determines the nature and extent of currency hedging activities, and in certain cases, may elect to allow certain currency exposures to remain unhedged. The Company has also entered into several cross currency interest rate swaps, to provide a partial hedge of the net investments in certain subsidiaries and better match the cash flows of operations to debt service requirements. Sensitivity to foreign currency exposure risk from these financial instruments at the end of 2004 would have been immaterial based on the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in all currencies. The Company generally does not hedge commodity price exposures. The Companys exposure to interest rate risk results from its outstanding debt obligations, short term investments, and derivative financial instruments employed in the management of its debt portfolio. The debt portfolio is managed to achieve capital structure targets and reduce the overall cost of borrowing by using a combination of fixed and floating rate debt as well as interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps. The Companys primary exposure to interest rate risk comes from its floating rate debt in the U.S. and Europe and is fairly represented by changes in LIBOR rates. At January 1, 2005, the result of a hypothetical two percentage point increase in short term LIBOR rates would not have resulted in a material impact on the pre tax profit of the Company. Fluctuations in the fair value of the Companys common stock affect ESOP expense as discussed in the U.S. Pension and ESOP section of Management Discussion and Analysis. Sales to The Home Depot amounted to 12% of 2004 consolidated net sales from continuing operations. The Company has other significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, though individually there are no others that exceed 10% of consolidated sales. The loss or material reduction of business from any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations and cash flows, until either such customers were replaced or the Company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. The Company has access to financial resources and borrowing capabilities around the world. There are no material instruments within the debt structure that would accelerate payment requirements due to a change in credit rating, and no significantly restrictive covenants. The Company believes that its 18 strong financial position, operating cash flows and borrowing capacity provide the financial flexibility necessary to continue its record of annual dividend payments, to invest in the routine needs of its businesses, to make strategic acquisitions and to fund other initiatives encompassed by its growth strategy. OTHER MATTERS Income Taxes: In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") was signed into law. The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed foreign earnings by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction. As of January 1, 2005, the Company has not provided for U.S. income and foreign withholding taxes on $324 million of undistributed foreign earnings that are considered to be invested indefinitely outside the United States. The Company may elect to repatriate some amount up to $324 million resulting in recognition of a tax liability of up to $42 million. The Company is awaiting the issuance of further regulatory guidance and statutory corrections with respect to certain provisions in the Act in order to determine the amounts it may repatriate, and expects to be in a position to finalize its assessment during 2005. Environmental: The Company incurs costs related to environmental issues as a result of various laws and regulations governing current operations as well as the remediation of previously contaminated sites. Future laws and regulations are expected to be increasingly stringent and will likely increase the Companys expenditures related to routine environmental matters. The Company accrues for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts in accordance with appropriate accounting guidelines which address probability and the ability to reasonably estimate future costs. The liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances become better defined or remediation efforts and their costs can be better estimated. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future environmental costs, the Company believes that any sum it may pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of the amounts recorded will not have a materially adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Refer to Note S Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 for further information on environmental liabilities and related cash flows. U.S. Pension and ESOP: In 2002, the Company recorded an $18 million pre tax pension settlement gain in Other net. This involved the termination and settlement of the primary U.S. salaried employee plan as well as settlement of most of the liabilities in the ongoing plan for hourly employees. In addition to the settlement gain, the Company recorded $8 million of operating income related to these plans in 2002, whereas in 2003 and 2004 the ongoing hourly plan resulted in approximately $2 million of expense. As detailed in Note M Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15, the Company has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) under which the ongoing U.S. defined contribution and (401K) plans are funded. Overall ESOP expense is affected by the market value of Stanley stock on the monthly dates when shares are released. In 2004, the market value of shares released averaged $43.20 per share and the net ESOP expense was $2 million. In 2003, the market value of shares released averaged $29.30 per share and the net ESOP expense was $9 million. ESOP expense may vary in the future as the market value of the Companys common stock fluctuates. The Company provides a 5% guaranteed rate of return on participant contributions made to the tax deferred savings plan (401K) prior to July 1998 when all contributions were invested in Stanley common stock. The value of the shares participants purchased prior to July 1998 along with the 5% cumulative guaranteed rate of return on Stanley common stock is known as an Investment Protection Account (IPA). Beginning in July 1998 the investment options for plan participant contributions were enhanced to include a variety of investment funds in addition to the Companys common stock, and there is no guaranteed rate of return to participants on any contributions made after that time. The IPA guarantee is included in the actuarial valuation of the ongoing U.S. pension plan. Payments related to the IPA guarantees, if they have any value, would be made to participants over a period of many years generally as they retire. In the event the market value of Stanley common stock declines 19 below $43.59 (which is the stock price at which there was a settlement of this liability) additional costs may be triggered by the IPA benefit guarantee. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Refer to Note A Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements and the potential impact to the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial position. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Preparation of the Companys financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are described in Note A Significant Accounting Policies in Item 15. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters with inherent uncertainty. The most significant areas involving management estimates are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ from managements estimates. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts: Stanleys estimate for its allowance for doubtful accounts related to trade receivables is based on two methods. The amounts calculated from each of these methods are combined to determine the total amount reserved. First, the Company evaluates specific accounts where information indicates the customers may have an inability to meet financial obligations, such as bankruptcy. In these cases, the Company uses its judgment, based on the best available facts and circumstances, to record a specific reserve for those customers against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount expected to be collected. These specific reserves are reevaluated and adjusted as additional information is received. Second, a reserve is established for all customers based on a range of percentages applied to receivables aging categories. These percentages are based on historical collection and write off experience. If circumstances change, for example the occurrence of higher than expected defaults or a material adverse change in a major customers ability to meet its financial obligation to the Company, estimates of the recoverability of receivable amounts due could be reduced. Inventories &ndash; Lower of Cost or Market, Slow Moving and Obsolete: U.S. inventories are predominantly valued at the lower of LIFO cost or market. The calculation of LIFO reserves, and therefore the net inventory valuation, is affected by inflation and deflation in inventory components. The Company ensures all inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market, and continually reviews the book value of discontinued product lines and stock keeping units (SKUs) to determine that these items are properly valued. The Company also continually evaluates the composition of its inventory and identifies obsolete and or slow moving inventories. Inventory items identified as obsolete and or slow moving are evaluated to determine if reserves are required. The Company identifies these inventories and assesses the ability to dispose of them at a price greater than cost. If it is determined that cost is less than market value, then cost is used for inventory valuation. If market value is less than cost, then the Company writes down the related inventory to that value. If a write down to the current market value is necessary, the market value cannot be greater than the net realizable value, or ceiling (defined as selling price less costs to sell and dispose), and cannot be lower than the net realizable value less a normal profit margin, also called the floor. If the Company is not able to achieve its expectations regarding net realizable value of inventory at its current value, reserves would have to be adjusted accordingly. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: The Company completed acquisitions in 2004 and 2003 valued at $322 million and $23 million, respectively. The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are recorded under the purchase method at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the underlying net assets of acquired businesses. The Company had recorded goodwill of $640 million and $79 million of indefinite lived tradenames at January 1, 2005. 20 In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment testing. The identification and measurement of goodwill and unamortized intangibles impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of reporting units. The estimates of fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available at the date of assessment, which primarily incorporate management assumptions about future cash flows. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in industry or market conditions or the rate and extent to which anticipated synergies or cost savings are realized with newly acquired entities. While the Company has not recorded intangibles impairment losses in several years, it is possible impairments may occur in the future in the event expected cash flows change significantly. Specifically, the Specialty Tools and Fastening Systems reporting units had experienced operating profit and margin rate declines in 2003 and 2002 due to the depressed technology industry and intensified competition, respectively. In 2004, however, both Fastening Systems and Specialty Tools operating profits and margin rates increased due to improved market conditions and strong execution by management. Specialty Tools and Fastening Systems had $73 million and $41 million, respectively, of recorded goodwill at January 1, 2005. There is potential for future goodwill and intangible impairment losses if projected profits and cash flows significantly decline from current estimates. See Note G Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 for further discussion. Property, Plant and Equipment (PP&E): The Company generally values PP&E at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Impairment losses are recorded when indicators of impairment, such as plant closures, are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount. The impairment loss is quantified by comparing the carrying amount of the assets to the weighted average discounted cash flows, which consider various possible outcomes for the disposition of the assets (i.e. sale, leasing, etc.). Primarily as a result of plant rationalization, certain facilities and equipment are not currently used in operations. The Company has recorded impairment losses related to unused assets and additional such losses may occur in the future. Risk Insurance: To some extent, the Company self insures for various business exposures. For domestic workers compensation and product liability, the Company generally purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses ("stop loss" insurance). The two risk areas involving the most significant accounting estimates are workers compensation and product liability (liability for alleged injuries associated with the Companys products). Actuarial valuations performed by an outside risk insurance expert form the basis for workers compensation and product liability loss reserves recorded. The actuary contemplates the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors to estimate the range of reserve required. Risk insurance reserves are comprised of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts expected for development of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified by third party administrator specialists (insurance companies) for workers compensation and by in house legal counsel in consultation with outside attorneys for product liability. The cash outflows related to risk insurance claims are expected to occur over approximately 8 to 10 years, and the present value of expected future claim payments is reserved. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of January 1, 2005 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. Income Taxes: The future tax benefit arising from net deductible temporary differences and tax carryforwards is $56 million at January 1, 2005 and $84 million at January 3, 2004. The Company believes earnings during the periods when the temporary differences become deductible will be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. For those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax carryforwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance is provided. The valuation allowance as of January 1, 2005 amounted to $37 million. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the Company estimates future taxable income, considering the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax loss 21 carryforwards. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be impacted by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future taxable income levels. In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or a portion of its deferred tax assets in the future, the unrealizable amount would be charged to earnings in the period in which that determination is made. By contrast, if the Company were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net carrying amounts, it would decrease the recorded valuation allowance through a favorable earnings adjustment in the period in which that determination is made. The Company periodically assess its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years still under audit based on the most current available information. When it is deemed probable that an adjustment will be asserted, the Company accrues its best estimate of the tax liability, inclusive of related interest charges. See Note Q Income Taxes of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 for further discussion. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Companys off balance sheet arrangements include the following: Receivable Securitizations: The Company has agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, pools of accounts and notes receivables to a Qualified Special Purpose Entity (QSPE), which qualifies to be accounted for as an unconsolidated subsidiary. The entity is designed to facilitate the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable. Assets and related debt off balance sheet were both $12 million at January 1, 2005. The Company is responsible for servicing these accounts while the QSPE bears the risk of non collection. There were no sales of eligible receivables in 2004, as the securitization was reduced by $42 million during the year. In 2003 the Company acquired a third partys interest in a Special Purpose Entity (SPE) which supported the Mac Tools extended financing programs. As a result, the entity became non qualifying and the net assets which consisted primarily of notes receivable of $56.4 million at January 3, 2004 were consolidated in the Companys balance sheet. No gains or losses related to sales to the SPE were recorded. During 2003, the Company sold $39 million of receivables in this portfolio to a third party. In 2004, the majority of the remaining portfolio was sold without recourse for $50 million, and the SPE was dissolved. The Company has outsourced both of the Mac Tools extended financing programs to third parties and has thus reduced its exposure to future credit losses. Synthetic Leases: The Company is a party to synthetic leasing programs for two of its major distribution centers. The programs qualify as operating leases for accounting purposes, such that only the monthly rent expense is recorded in the Statement of Operations and the liability and value of the underlying assets are off balance sheet. These lease programs are utilized primarily to reduce overall cost and to retain flexibility. As of January 1, 2005, the estimated fair value of assets and remaining obligations for these two properties were $50 million and $42 million, respectively. CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain statements contained in this Annual Report to shareowners, including the statements regarding the Companys ability: (i) to improve the overall profitability of the Companys operations; (ii) to limit the carryover impact of steel cost and other inflation increases in 2005 to $40 45 million and to offset 80 85% of that impact through the carryover impact of price increases; (iii) to capitalize on future acquisition opportunities and fund other initiatives; (iv) to invest in the routine needs of its business; and (v) to continue its record of annual dividend payments and to increase such dividends are forward looking and are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors listed below and other factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. The Companys ability to achieve the results described above (the "Results") is dependent on: (i) the success of the Companys efforts to efficiently and promptly integrate its recently announced (as well 22 as future) acquisitions; (ii) the success of the Companys efforts to hold freight costs, steel and other commodity costs down; (iii) the success of the Companys efforts to sustain or increase prices in order to, among other things, offset the impact of steel cost and other inflation increases; (iv) continued improvements in productivity and cost reductions; (v) the identification of overhead cost reduction opportunities and effective execution of the same; (vi) the Companys successful settlement of routine tax audits; (vii) the ability of the Company to generate earnings sufficient to realize future income tax benefits during periods when temporary differences become deductible; (viii) the continued ability of the Company to access credit markets under satisfactory terms; and (ix) satisfactory payment terms under which the Company buys and sells goods, materials and products. The Companys ability to deliver the Results also is dependent upon: (i) the continued success of the Companys marketing and sales efforts, including the Companys ability to recruit and retain an adequate sales force; (ii) the continued success of The Home Depot, Lowes and Wal Mart sales initiatives as well as other programs to stimulate demand for company products; (iii) the success of recruiting programs and other efforts to maintain or expand overall Mac Tools truck count versus prior years; (iv) the ability of the sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage; (v) the ability of the Company to fulfill increasing demand for its products; (vi) the ability to continue successfully managing and defending claims and litigation; and (vii) the absence or mitigation of increased pricing pressures from customers and competitors and the ability to defend market share in the face of price competition. The Companys ability to achieve the Results will also be affected by external factors. These external factors include pricing pressure and other changes within competitive markets, the continued consolidation of customers particularly in consumer channels, inventory management pressures on the Companys customers, increasing competition, changes in trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies and laws, inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, the impact of dollar/foreign currency exchange and interest rates on the competitiveness of products and the Companys debt program, the strength of the US economy and the impact of events that cause or may cause disruption in the companys distribution and sales networks such as war, terrorist activities, political unrest and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the world in which the Company operates. Unless required by applicable federal securities laws, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company incorporates by reference the material captioned "Market Risk" in Item 7 and the material in Note J Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10 K. 
 
