ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The financial and business analysis below provides information which the Company believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. This financial and business analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes. The following discussion and certain other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K contain statements reflecting the Companys views about its future performance and constitute forward looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and markets in which the Company operates and managements beliefs and assumptions. Any statements contained herein (including without limitation statements to the effect that The Stanley Works or its management believes, expects, anticipates, plans and similar expressions) that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth, or incorporated by reference, below under the heading Cautionary Statements. The Company does not intend to update publicly any forward looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Company is a worldwide supplier of consumer products, industrial tools and security solutions for professional, commercial, industrial and consumer use. Its operations are classified into three business segments: Consumer Products, Industrial Tools and Security Solutions. The Consumer Products segment manufactures and markets hand tools, consumer mechanics tools, storage units and hardware. These products are sold primarily to professional end users and distributed through retailers (including home centers, mass merchants, hardware stores, and retail lumber yards). The Industrial Tools segment manufactures and markets professional mechanics and hand tools, pneumatic tools and fasteners, storage systems, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and roofing tools, hydraulic tools and accessories, assembly tools and systems, and electronic leveling and measuring tools. These products are sold to customers and distributed primarily through third party distributors as well as through direct sales forces. The Security Solutions segment is a provider of access and security solutions primarily for retailers, educational, financial and healthcare institutions, as well as commercial, governmental and industrial customers. The Company provides an extensive suite of mechanical and electronic security products and systems including automatic doors, door closers, access controls, exit devices, software and locking mechanisms, as well as a variety of security services, security integration, related installation and maintenance services. For several years, the Company has focused on a profitable growth strategy and begun to transform itself from a mature 160 year old American tool company, to an innovative, multi national, diversified, industrial growth business. This strategy has included approximately $2 billion of acquisitions since the beginning of 2002, several key divestitures, the reduction of risk associated with certain large customer concentrations and increased brand investments. Additionally, the strategy reflects managements vision to build a growth platform in security while expanding the valuable branded tools and hardware platforms. Over the past several years, the Company has generated strong free cash flow and received substantial proceeds from divestitures that were utilized to invest in the transformation of the business portfolio. 15 Free cash flow, as defined in the following table, was $359 million in 2006, $294 million in 2005, and $317 million in 2004, considerably exceeding net earnings from continuing operations. The Company believes free cash flow is an important indicator of its liquidity, as well as its ability to fund future growth and provide a dividend to shareowners. (Millions of Dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 439 $ 362 $ 372 Less: capital expenditures (60 ) (53 ) (48 ) Less: capitalized software (20 ) (15 ) (7 ) Free cash flow $ 359 $ 294 $ 317 The Company strives to reinvest its free cash flow in high return businesses in order to generate strong return on assets and improve working capital efficiency. Significant areas of tactical emphasis related to execution of this strategy and its ability to generate free cash flow, as well as events impacting the Companys financial performance in 2006 and 2005, are discussed below. CONTINUED GROWTH OF SECURITY SOLUTIONS BUSINESS The Company further advanced its strategy of becoming a global market leader in the commercial security industry. Annual revenues of the Security Solutions segment have grown to $887 million, or 22% of 2006 sales, up from $105 million, or 5% of 2001 sales. Key events pertaining to the growth of this segment in the past two years include the following: &bull; The Company completed the acquisition of HSM Electronic Protection Services, Inc. (HSM) in January 2007 for approximately $545 million in cash. HSM, based near Chicago, Illinois, is a market leader in the security monitoring industry, and has annual revenues of approximately $200 million. HSM has a stable customer base, an extensive North American field network and the second largest market share in the U.S. commercial monitoring market. The acquisition will serve as a growth platform in the monitoring sector of the security industry. Management anticipates HSM will be neutral to 2007 earnings, increasing to 20 to 25 cents per diluted share earnings in 2009, with approximately $38 million of non cash intangible asset amortization occurring in 2007 related to acquired contracts. &bull; During 2006, the Company completed three bolt on acquisitions for a combined purchase price of $22 million. Automatic Entrances of Colorado, Inc. (Automatic Entrances) is a distributor that sells, installs and services automatic doors and gates in several western states in the U.S., and Automatic Doors Systems, Inc. (Automatic Doors) is an automatic door distributor that operates in the southeastern U.S. Both of these acquisitions were integrated into the branch structure of the existing automatic doors business and increase its geographic scope. GDX Technologies Ltd. (GDX) is a leading access control supplier in the United Kingdom that possesses strong technological product development capabilities. GDX complements the existing European security integration business. &bull; In January 2005, U.S. based Security Group, Inc. (Security Group) was acquired for approximately $50 million. Security Group is comprised of two primary operating companies: Sargent & Greenleaf, Inc. and The SafeMasters Co., Inc. Sargent & Greenleaf, Inc. is a manufacturer of medium and high security locks and locking systems for the financial, government and retail markets. The SafeMasters Co., Inc. is a North American access control provider offering a wide variety of physical security installation, maintenance and repair services, with emphasis on mechanical locking systems. &bull; In May 2005, the Company completed the acquisitions of Precision Hardware, Inc. (Precision) and Sielox Security Systems Pty Ltd (Sielox), for a combined purchase price of $48 million. Precision manufactures and distributes exit devices, door closers and security hardware in the United States and provides a complementary product offering to the Companys existing mechanical access business. Australian based Sielox specializes in the installation and servicing of electronic security systems for new construction projects. 16 The above acquisitions complement the existing Security Solutions product offering, increase its scale and strengthen the value proposition offered to end user customers as industry dynamics favor multi solution providers that offer one stop shopping capabilities. The Company continues to focus on integrating the acquired businesses as it expands the suite of its security product and service offerings. In 2006 and 2005, various process improvement initiatives were initiated including integration of overlapping field service organizations and implementation of certain common back office systems. These integration efforts will continue for the next two years. DRIVE FURTHER PROFITABLE GROWTH IN BRANDED TOOLS AND HARDWARE While diversifying the business portfolio through expansion into Security Solutions is important, management also recognizes that the branded consumer products and industrial tools businesses are the foundations on which the Company was established and provide strong growth and cash flow generation prospects. While these businesses are strong and profitable today, management is committed to growing these businesses through innovative product development, brand support and relentless focus on global cost competitiveness in order to maintain vitality over the long term. Acquisition related growth will also be pursued where appropriate. The following matters affected these businesses: &bull; The Company has rigorously focused on innovation in order to enhance its product development pipeline and reduce commercialization cycle time. In 2005, 350 new SKUs were successfully launched including the AntiVibe&reg; Hammer, Quickslide&reg; Knife and FatMax&reg; Hacksaw. Innovation continued in 2006 with the successful launch of the largest new hand tools product introduction in the Companys history. The FatMax&reg;Xtreme&trade; product line commenced shipping at the end of March 2006 and was supplemented by a second phase roll out initiated in September 2006, which included the initial launch of FatMax&reg;XL&trade; in European markets. &bull; In January 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of Facom S.A. (Facom) for 407 million euros ($480 million) which was financed with a combination of cash on hand and debt issuance. Facom, based in France, is a leading European manufacturer of hand and mechanics tools with annual revenues approximating $475 million. Facom designs, manufactures and markets the majority of its tool product offerings to professional automotive and industrial end users with its well known industrial tool brands: Facom&reg;, Virax&reg; and USAG&reg;. Facom operates primarily within the premium industrial and automotive tools sector in Europe, while the Companys pre existing European customer base is focused mainly on the construction and D I Y (do it yourself) channels. As a result, the two businesses complement each other and benefit from joint efforts in areas such as product sourcing and procurement. &bull; On November 30, 2005, National Manufacturing Co. (National) was acquired for $174 million. National is a leading North American manufacturer and supplier of builders hardware, marketing the majority of its products through the two step cooperative channel to the builder trade. National serves over 25,000 outlets with manufacturing operations in the U.S., Canada and Mexico and has annual revenues of approximately $175 million. &bull; During 2006, the Company continued to focus on the integration of the recent Facom and National acquisitions with dedicated integration teams. Cost reduction actions for National resulted in the severance of 240 employees, rationalization of distribution processes and transitioning of certain manufacturing activities to Asia. The cost reduction actions and integration will continue throughout 2007. Facom is profitable and has experienced a long history of success in professional markets in Europe, especially in France and Italy. Nonetheless, many of its products are subject to competitive forces that will likely require a significant reformation of its cost structure and that of existing Stanley Europe. Management is committed to performing such a reformation in order to ensure the long term competitiveness and preservation of the Facom and Stanley tool franchises in Europe. During 2006, the Company completed a consultation process with its European Works Council 17 regarding the reorganization of its Facom and Stanley hand tools activities in Europe (these Initiatives). These initiatives will, among other things, implement growth strategies and reduce costs by rationalizing manufacturing, logistics, sales and support organizations. It will result in the severance of approximately 580 employees, the closure of two legacy Facom factories in France and four legacy Facom distribution centers located in the United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland. The Company estimates approximately $75 million in cash expenditures will be incurred for these Initiatives, the majority of which has been recorded in the Facom purchase price allocation. These Initiatives commenced during the latter half of 2006 and implementation will continue throughout 2007. &bull; In July 2006, the Company acquired approximately 67% of the outstanding shares of Besco Pneumatic Corporation (Besco), a leading manufacturer of pneumatic tools for $38 million in cash. Over the next five years, the Company will have the option to increase its ownership by an additional 15% to an ultimate ownership of 82%. Besco, which is headquartered in Taiwan and also has operations in China, possesses state of the art research and development capabilities and efficient production facilities. Besco was one of Stanley fastening systems significant suppliers and approximately half of its 2005 sales of $38 million were to the Company. The acquisition is a key step in reducing the fastening systems business existing cost structure and will facilitate the pursuit of business in emerging markets aided by Bescos brand strength in Asia. CONTINUE TO INVEST IN THE STANLEY BRAND The Stanley&reg; brand is recognized as one of the worlds great brands and is one of the Companys most valuable assets. Brand support was increased during 2006, 2005 and 2004, including television advertising campaigns associated with new product roll outs, continued NASCAR racing sponsorships as well as more print and web based advertising that generated approximately one billion brand impressions annually. These advertising and marketing campaigns yielded strong results as evidenced by various hand tools metrics during 2006: web traffic increase of 31%; sales lead increase of 9%; brand awareness increase of 30% and intent to buy increase of 30% versus 2005. INSTITUTIONALIZE THE STANLEY FULFILLMENT SYSTEM The Company continued to practice the operating disciplines specified by the Stanley Fulfillment System (SFS), which is a continuous operational improvement process committed to increasing customer and shareowner value. SFSs core disciplines consist of striving to achieve perfect quality, service excellence, optimal cost, and environmental health & safety. The Company applies SFS to many aspects of its business including procurement, maximizing customer fill rates, acquisition integration, and other key business processes. The SFS program helped to mitigate the impact of material price inflation that was experienced in recent years. In 2007, the Company plans to expand its efforts to leverage SFS across the enterprise with the intent of increasing working capital turns, decreasing cycle times, and increasing customer satisfaction. Aside from the strategic commentary above, four other matters having a significant impact on the Companys results were inflation, currency exchange rate fluctuations, share repurchase and stock option expensing. The Company has been negatively impacted by inflation, primarily commodity and freight, which has increased costs by approximately $85 million over the past two years. During this period, the Company has recovered approximately 68% of the cost increase through pricing actions, and largely offset the remainder through various cost reduction initiatives. The Company expects the negative impact of inflation during 2007 will be in the range of $60 &mdash; $65 million, and plans to recover more than two thirds of this impact through pricing, and offset the remainder through productivity actions. In recent years, the strengthening of foreign currencies had a favorable impact on the translation of foreign currency denominated operating results into U.S. dollars. It is estimated that the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, including acquired companies, contributed $0.04 and $0.12 of 18 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2005 and 2004, and had no effect on 2006 earnings per share. This impact was principally from the Canadian dollar and Asian currencies in 2005 and European currencies in 2004. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar may have a significant impact on future earnings, either positive or negative. During 2006, the Company repurchased 4 million outstanding shares of its common stock for $200 million. This stock repurchase program was accretive to diluted earnings per share by approximately 13 cents in 2006. This was partially offset by the issuance of 2.1 million shares of common stock under various employee plans. In 2006, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123R), which requires all share based payments, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations based on their fair values as they are earned by the employees under the vesting terms. Pursuant to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company recognized $9 million of non cash, pre tax stock option compensation expense in 2006, which negatively impacted diluted earnings per share by 7 cents compared to the corresponding 2005 period. Refer to Note A Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of SFAS 123R. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Below is a summary of the Companys operating results at the consolidated level, followed by an overview of business segment performance. The terms organic and core are utilized to describe results aside from the significant impact of acquisitions and do not include their results of operations until they have reached their respective one year anniversary dates. This ensures appropriate comparability to operating results of prior periods. Net Sales: Net sales from continuing operations were $4.019 billion in 2006, as compared to $3.285 billion in 2005, a 22% increase. Acquisitions contributed 21% or $689 million of the sales increase. Organic sales increased 1% driven by relatively consistent volume, pricing levels and foreign currency impact compared to the prior year. The organic increase was generated by share gains achieved in the consumer hand tools and automatic doors businesses offset by price and volume declines experienced in the fastening systems business. Favorable foreign currency translation in the Americas and Europe was partially offset by a negative impact from Asia. Net sales from continuing operations were $3.285 billion in 2005, as compared to $2.997 billion in 2004, a 10% increase. Acquisitions contributed 6% or $167 million of the sales increase. Organic sales increased 4% driven by 2% volume growth, 1% favorable foreign currency and a 1% positive pricing impact. The organic volume growth was attributed to strong Consumer Products demand based on successful consumer hand tool and garage storage new product introductions, as well as increases in several Industrial Tools businesses, principally industrial mechanics tools, hydraulic tools, leveling / measuring tools and fastening systems. Favorable foreign currency translation in Canada and Asia increased net sales by 1%. Gross Profit: The Company reported gross profit from continuing operations of $1.459 billion, or 36% of net sales, in 2006, compared to $1.181 billion, or 36% of net sales, in the prior year. The acquired businesses increased gross profit by $265 million. Included in the 2006 gross profit is the unfavorable impact of $22 million in non cash inventory step up charges related to the initial turnover of acquired inventory. Gross profit for 2006 was 37% of net sales excluding this non recurring item, primarily due to the positive impact of the Facom acquisition. Core gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 36% in 2006, which was consistent with the prior year. The benefits of prior cost reduction actions, productivity improvements from the Stanley Fulfillment System, and pricing actions offset continued margin pressure from commodity and other inflation which resulted in approximately $48 million of additional costs, and a decline in fastening systems. The Company expects inflation to increase 2007 costs by approximately $60 &ndash; $65 million, which management plans to mitigate through various customer pricing actions and continued cost reduction and productivity initiatives. The fastening systems gross profit decline reflected lower sales volumes, a result of weakening housing 19 markets and price erosion, as well as a commitment to shed unprofitable business; gross profit in this business was further impacted by commodity cost inflation. Management launched an extensive cost reduction initiative with the objective to return fastening systems to acceptable profitability over a two year period. The Company reported gross profit from continuing operations of $1.181 billion, or 36% of net sales, in 2005, compared to $1.104 billion, or 37% of net sales, in the prior year. Acquisitions increased gross profit by $52 million. The remaining $25 million improvement was primarily attributed to the increase in organic sales volume and continued benefits of the Stanley Fulfillment System. As a percentage of sales, the year over year gross margin rate decline primarily stems from unfavorable mix and cost absorption in the fastening business, and to a lesser extent the impact of recently acquired businesses which possess lower gross margin percentages until integration synergies are realized. During 2005, there was carryover of commodity inflation from 2004 which resulted in approximately $40 million of additional costs that were mostly recovered through favorable pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives. SG&A expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses from continuing operations were $955 million, or 24% of net sales, in 2006, compared to $737 million, or 22% of net sales, in the prior year. The increase of $218 million primarily relates to acquired businesses that increased costs by $192 million, $11 million of increased non cash stock compensation expense principally associated with the adoption of stock option expensing during 2006, and $11 million of increased brand support. Excluding acquisitions, SG&A as a percentage of sales increased slightly to 23% of net sales compared with 22% in 2005 due to the items described above, partially offset by benefits received from prior restructuring actions. Selling, general and administrative expenses from continuing operations were $737 million, or 22% of net sales, in 2005, compared to $691 million, or 23% of net sales, in the prior year. The increase of $46 million mainly pertains to acquired businesses that increased costs by $34 million, and $14 million of increased brand support. Excluding acquisitions, SG&A as a percentage of sales decreased 50 basis points compared with 2004 levels despite the higher brand support expense due to sales volume leverage, lower Sarbanes Oxley compliance costs and effective cost controls. Interest and Other net: Net interest expense from continuing operations in 2006 was $65 million, compared to $34 million in 2005. The increase was mainly due to the November 2005 issuance of $450 million in junior subordinated debt securities to fund acquisitions, and to a lesser extent increased commercial paper borrowings resulting primarily from the execution of the $200 million share repurchase program in the first half of 2006, along with higher applicable short term interest rates. Interest expense will increase in 2007 due to borrowings associated with the January 2007 acquisition of HSM for $545 million; the earlier discussed net earnings expectations for HSM contemplate the interest costs related to financing the acquisition. Net interest expense from continuing operations in 2005 was $34 million, consistent with 2004 levels. Interest expense was held fairly constant in a period of rising interest rates through the maintenance of overall lower debt levels during most of 2005 and application of effective hedging strategies. Other net from continuing operations represented $57 million of expense in 2006 compared to $48 million of expense in 2005. The increase was primarily driven by $9 million of higher intangible asset amortization expense associated with acquisition activity, a $4 million pension plan curtailment charge in the U.K., and a $5 million increase in foreign currency losses, partially offset by lower environmental expense and decreased losses on the sale of fixed assets. Other net from continuing operations represented $48 million of expense in 2005, an increase of $2 million over 2004. The slight increase was primarily driven by $6 million of higher intangible asset amortization associated with acquisition activity partially offset by lower foreign currency losses. Income Taxes: The Companys effective income tax rate from continuing operations for 2006 was 21% as compared to 24% for 2005 and 27% for 2004. The lower effective tax rate in the current year compared to 2005 is driven by the realization of credits against U.S. taxes and the inclusion of the European based Facom acquisition. Additionally, 20 substantial costs were incurred in 2005 for the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act and such costs were not incurred in 2006. It is anticipated the 2007 effective tax rate will increase to within a 25% to 27% range, in part because certain credits affecting the 2006 and 2005 tax rate will not re occur. The decrease in the effective income tax rate in 2005 compared to 2004 reflects a higher proportion of taxable income in countries with lower statutory rates, as well as the recording of a $5 million tax benefit pertaining to the execution of tax planning strategies enabling the reduction of a previously provided valuation allowance on future utilization of certain prior year European net operating losses. Also, a $17 million tax benefit was recorded arising from the final settlement of various tax contingencies based on the resolution of income tax audits in 2005. In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) was signed into law. The Act created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate foreign earnings by providing an 85 percent deduction for certain dividends received from controlled foreign corporations. During 2005, the Company repatriated $250 million in foreign earnings and recorded $16 million of tax expense pertaining to the repatriation. Discontinued Operations: Net loss from discontinued operations of $1 million in 2006 primarily relates to the previous operating results and loss from the sale of the U.K. paint decorator tool business in March 2006. In 2005, the Company announced the planned sale of two small businesses: the U.K. paint decorator tool business and a small appliance hinge business. The operations of these two held for sale businesses, along with the resolution of tax and other matters associated with the 2004 divestitures, resulted in a net loss from discontinued operations of $2 million in 2005. Net earnings from discontinued operations were $130 million in 2004, reflecting a $95 million net gain on the March 2004 sale of the residential entry door business, a $24 million net gain on the December 2004 divestiture of the home d&eacute;cor business, a $4 million net loss on the sale of a small German paint roller business, as well as the operating results of these discontinued operations. Business Segment Results The Companys reportable segments are an aggregation of businesses that have similar products and services, among other factors. The Company utilizes operating profit, which is defined as net sales minus cost of sales, SG&A and allocated corporate and common expenses; and operating profit as a percentage of net sales to assess the profitability of each segment. Segment operating profit excludes interest income, interest expense, other net, intangible asset amortization expense, restructuring and asset impairments, and income tax expense. Refer to Note O Restructuring and Asset Impairments and Note G Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the amount of restructuring charges and asset impairments, and intangibles amortization expense, respectively, attributable to each segment. As discussed previously, the Companys operations are classified into three business segments: Consumer Products, Industrial Tools, and Security Solutions. Consumer Products: (Millions of Dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net sales from continuing operations $ 1,329 $ 1,098 $ 1,043 Operating profit from continuing operations $ 210 $ 185 $ 171 % of Net sales 15.8 % 16.9 % 16.4 % Net sales from continuing operations of Consumer Products increased 21% in 2006 compared to 2005. Of this increase, acquisitions, predominantly National, accounted for 18%, while organic volume and price rose 2% and 1%, respectively. Foreign currency did not significantly impact sales. The consumer hand tool business continued to achieve share gains from the strong performance of the new FatMax&reg;Xtreme&trade; and FatMax&reg;XL&trade; product lines which launched in the U.S. and European markets, representing the largest new hand tools product introduction in the Companys history. At the same time, the FatMax&reg; range of product offerings delivered growth though continued premium innovation, distribution point expansion and related brand support. This favorable performance was partially offset by lower volumes in the consumer storage and mechanics tools businesses. The prior year sales 21 in the consumer storage business reflected higher volume from the initial launch of garage storage products. The 110 basis point decline in segment operating margin is primarily due to $8 million of non cash inventory step up amortization from acquisitions, the dilutive impact of National margins due to its legacy high cost manufacturing structure which the Company continues to transition to low cost countries, increased brand support, and commodity cost inflation, partially offset by savings derived from price recovery initiatives and prior cost reduction actions. Consumer Products net sales from continuing operations in 2005 represented a 5% increase over 2004. Of this 5% increase, the November 2005 National acquisition contributed 1% while organic volume increased 3% driven by strength in the hand tools and consumer storage business associated with successful new product introductions. The effects of currency and pricing contributed equally to the remaining 1% increase. Solid organic sales growth was achieved despite an unanticipated inventory correction by certain large North American customers in December 2005 which negatively impacted sales by approximately $30 million versus normal levels. Operating margin improved 50 basis points primarily due to leverage associated with the increase in sales volume. Industrial Tools: (Millions of Dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net sales from continuing operations $ 1,803 $ 1,370 $ 1,293 Operating profit from continuing operations $ 159 $ 136 $ 133 % of Net sales 8.8 % 9.9 % 10.3 % Industrial Tools net sales increased 32% in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily driven by the Facom and Besco acquisitions, which increased sales by $452 million or 33%. Favorable pricing actions and favorable foreign currency collectively contributed 1%, and were more than offset by a core volume decline of 2%. The majority of this decrease was due to fastening systems organic sales declining 7% compared to the prior year stemming from weakness in the U.S. construction market and managements commitment to turn down unprofitable business. This decline more than offset strong results in the Mac Tools, Facom, hydraulic tools, industrial tools and storage businesses, as organic sales aside from fastening systems increased 3% in 2006 compared to the prior year. Mac Tools continues to benefit from improved retention of its distributors based on management actions initiated early in the year. Industrial tools and storage and the hydraulic tools businesses obtained share gains from the success of new product introductions in the oil and mining industries as demand for such commodities remained strong during 2006. Operating profit as a percentage of net sales decreased by 110 basis points due to $13 million of non cash inventory step up amortization associated with the Facom acquisition, commodity inflation, supply chain inefficiencies in certain businesses due to increased backlog, and the sales volume decline and cost inefficiencies experienced by the U.S. fastening systems business, partially offset by the accretive impact of Facom. Management is committed to restoring the fastening systems business long term cost competitiveness by continuing the migration of production to Asia, reducing the overall SG&A and manufacturing footprint, as well as SKU rationalization. Additionally, the acquisition of Asian based Besco and the opening of a new manufacturing facility in China during 2006 will strategically aid the fastening systems business long term vitality. Industrial Tools net sales increased 6% in 2005 from 2004. The carryover effect from the 2004 CST/Berger and related 2005 acquisitions contributed nearly 1% of the sales increase. The 5% organic sales increase was comprised of 3% volume and 2% price. Sales volume rose on continued strong demand in the industrial mechanics tools, hydraulic tools, laser leveling tools, and storage businesses, and to a lesser extent fastening systems. These volume gains were partially offset by declines in the Mac Tools and assembly technologies businesses. Industrial mechanics tools increase in volume was driven by share gains achieved from new product introductions and improved customer service. Hydraulic tools also benefited from new product introductions as well as higher product demand associated with the steel scrap market which was driven by the strong global demand for steel. Laser leveling tools continued to increase its market share in the U.S. and European professional markets due to new product offerings. Although demand began to slow during the latter half of 2005, fastening systems achieved moderate sales growth during 2005 based on demand from the U.S. construction and 22 industrial channels along with the success of innovative nail products. The storage business increase in volume was driven by the successful launch of a vertical lift module automated storage and retrieval system as well as strong demand experienced in the industrial, heavy truck, and automotive dealership markets. Assembly technologies was affected by weakness in the U.S. auto industry, as the Big 3 automakers continued to reduce capital expenditures in conjunction with other cost reduction initiatives. Mac Tools sales fell due to a decline in the number of distributors in 2005 compared to 2004 as dealer attrition outpaced recruiting efforts. However, the average sales per Mac Tools distributor was up 4% versus 2004 and operating margin improved slightly. Operating profit in 2005 was $136 million, or 9.9% of net sales, up slightly compared to $133 million, or 10.3% of net sales, in 2004. The 40 basis point decline in the operating margin rate, despite the sales volume increase, was primarily due to increased freight costs, as well as unfavorable mix and cost absorption in the fastening business where manufacturing volume was lower in 2005 compared to 2004 on improved inventory management. Security Solutions: (Millions of Dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net sales from continuing operations $ 887 $ 818 $ 662 Operating profit from continuing operations $ 134 $ 124 $ 108 % of Net sales 15.1 % 15.1 % 16.3 % During 2006, Security Solutions sales increased 8%. Acquisitions contributed 4%, organic sales volume 2%, pricing 1%, and currency 1%. The automatic doors business continued to grow its service revenue and achieved strong national account share gains driven by the favorable impact of new product introductions, new store openings and increased modernization of pre existing stores. The mechanical access business benefited from new product introductions and its expanded ability to provide customers with virtually all of their varied mechanical product needs. In addition, the Security segment as a whole benefited from the growth and continued integration of its national service foot print. The 2006 operating margin as a percentage of net sales was consistent with 2005 as the favorable impact from prior cost reduction and integration actions were negated by commodity cost inflation and the dilutive impact of recently acquired companies until integration initiatives unfold. Security Solutions sales increased 24% in 2005. Excluding acquisitions, organic sales increased 2%. Sales volume and favorable foreign currency each represented 1% of the organic increase. The increase in organic volume was driven by the North American mechanical access and electronic security integration businesses, partially offset by declines in the North American automatic door and Blick U.K. security businesses. The strong sales volume achieved by the mechanical access business was driven by increased demand from its national accounts based on the continued ability to provide a diversified product offering to such customers, while the North American security integration business benefited from strong market conditions. The decline in Blick was attributable to overall softness in the U.K. economy, while the automatic doors business was negatively impacted by the non recurrence of a major project upgrade at a large customer as compared with 2004. Acquisitions contributed $17 million of operating profit. The operating margin rate decrease is primarily attributed to unfavorable mix as a result of a higher proportion of electronic access sales as compared to mechanical access, as well as the impact of recent acquisitions as integration synergies were not yet fully achieved, and there was unfavorable impact from non recurring inventory step up costs in purchase accounting. However, the second half 2005 operating margin was 15.8% compared to 14.4% in the first half, reflecting the benefit of various cost reduction initiatives including headcount reductions at several of the businesses, progress in the integration of field service organizations and back office systems, and the continued roll out of the Stanley Fulfillment System to recently acquired businesses. 23 RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES At December 30, 2006, the restructuring and asset impairment reserve balance was $63.1 million, which the Company expects to be fully expended by the end of 2007. Restructuring charges in 2007 are expected to increase to approximately $.20 per diluted share. A summary of the Companys restructuring reserve activity from December 31, 2005 to December 30, 2006 is as follows (in millions): 12/31/05 AcquisitionImpact NetAdditions Usage Currency 12/30/06 Acquisitions Severance $ 2.2 $ 68.5 $ 0.4 $ (16.4 ) $ &mdash; $ 54.7 Facility Closure &mdash; 2.7 &mdash; (0.3 ) &mdash; 2.4 Other 0.1 2.0 0.5 (1.1 ) &mdash; 1.5 2006 Actions &mdash; &mdash; 11.9 (9.3 ) &mdash; 2.6 Pre 2006 Actions 2.6 &mdash; 1.0 (1.8 ) 0.1 1.9 $ 4.9 $ 73.2 $ 13.8 $ (28.9 ) $ 0.1 $ 63.1 2006 Actions: During 2006, the Company initiated a cost reduction initiative in order to maintain its cost competitiveness and vitality. Severance charges of $11.9 million were recorded during the year relating to a reduction of 728 employees. Approximately $3.0 million of this charge pertained to the Consumer Products segment; $4.5 million to the Industrial Tools segment; and $4.4 million to the Security Solutions segment. Of these amounts, $9.3 million has been utilized to date, with $2.6 million of reserves remaining as of December 30, 2006. In addition to severance, $4.1 million for a U.K. pension plan curtailment was recorded in Other, net and $1.3 million of related consulting costs were recorded in SG&A. Pre 2006 Actions: During 2005, the Company initiated a $5.7 million cost reduction in various businesses, of which $4.6 million was recorded in 2005 and $1.1 million was recorded during 2006. The action was comprised of the severance of 170 employees and the exit of a leased facility. Of this amount, $5.0 million has been utilized to date with $0.7 million of accrual remaining as of December 30, 2006. Approximately $4.3 million of this charge pertained to the Security Solutions segment; $0.9 million to the Industrial Tools segment; and $0.5 million to the Consumer Products segment. In addition, as of December 30, 2006, $1.2 million of reserves remain relating to pre 2005 actions. Acquisition Related: During 2006, the Company completed a consultation process with its European Works Council regarding the reorganization of its Facom and Stanley hand tools activities in Europe (these Initiatives). These Initiatives will, among other things, implement growth strategies and reduce costs by rationalizing manufacturing, logistics, sales and support organizations resulting in the severance of approximately 580 employees, the closure of two legacy Facom factories in France, as well as four legacy Facom distribution centers located in the United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland. The facility rationalization commenced recently with the severance of approximately 440 employees, closure of the two French factories and exit from the United Kingdom distribution center. The Company expects to complete these Initiatives during 2007. Cash expenditures to be incurred for these Initiatives are estimated at approximately $75 million, of which $59.4 million has been recorded to the Facom purchase price allocation and $0.7 million was reported as a 2006 restructuring charge. As of December 30, 2006, $6.6 million has been utilized to date, with $53.5 million accrual remaining. Also, $1.4 million of asset impairments were recorded to Cost of Sales relating to inventory rationalization associated with the plant shut downs. In connection with its acquisition of National, the Company recorded $8.0 million in severance costs for 243 employees and $0.3 million for facility closure costs to the purchase price allocation, and $0.2 million was recorded as a restructuring charge. As of December 30, 2006, $5.8 million has been utilized with $2.7 million accrual remaining. 24 FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity, Sources and Uses of Capital: The Companys primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and borrowings under various credit facilities. Operating and Investing Activities: The Company has historically generated strong cash flows from operations. In 2006, cash flow from operations was $439 million compared to $362 million in 2005. The $77 million improvement in 2006 versus 2005 is mainly attributable to higher cash earnings on the strength of acquisitions, reflecting the removal of increased non cash expenses in 2006 (particularly inventory step up amortization associated with acquisitions, intangible asset amortization expense and stock based compensation expense). Receivables, inventories and accounts payables generated $11 million higher cash inflows in 2006 compared with 2005 due to increased receivable sales. These favorable impacts were partially offset by cash outflows for restructuring activities which amounted to $29 million in 2006, an increase of $20 million over 2005. In 2005, operating cash flow totaled $362 million, down slightly from 2004. Capital expenditures were $80 million in 2006, $68 million in 2005, and $55 million in 2004. The higher capital expenditures in 2006 were driven by upgrades of information systems, the incremental impact of normal capital spending incurred by recent acquisitions, and equipment purchases related to new product introductions. The increase in 2005 capital expenditures versus 2004 was due to new product introductions, information system upgrades and plant investments in China and Thailand. The Company expects future capital expenditures to increase approximately in proportion to its sales growth. Free cash flow, as defined in the following table, was $359 million in 2006 and $294 million in 2005, considerably exceeding net earnings from continuing operations in a period of continued strong sales volume growth. The Company believes free cash flow is an important indicator of its liquidity, as well as its ability to fund future growth and provide a dividend to shareowners. (Millions of Dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 439 $ 362 $ 372 Less: capital expenditures (60 ) (53 ) (48 ) Less: capitalized software (20 ) (15 ) (7 ) Free cash flow $ 359 $ 294 $ 317 Based on its demonstrated ability to generate cash flow from operations as well as its strong balance sheet and credit position at December 30, 2006, the Company believes it has the financial flexibility to deploy capital to its shareholders advantage through a combination of acquisitions, dividends, debt repayment, and potential future share repurchases. In 2006, acquisition spending totaled $572 million, primarily related to Facom and Besco, and $20 million of debt repayments associated with the 2004 acquisition of Blick. 2005 acquisition spending amounted to $287 million principally for the National, Security Group, Sielox and Precision acquisitions discussed previously. As part of its portfolio diversification shift, in 2004 the Company received $205 million in net proceeds from sales of the residential entry door and home d&eacute;cor businesses, and disbursed $301 million for business acquisitions. In 2005, the $21 million of remaining taxes due on the gain from these business sales were paid. Pursuant to its profitable growth strategy, the Company will continue to assess its current business portfolio for disposition opportunities and make acquisitions in favored markets while minimizing the risk associated with large customer concentrations. The Company likely will complete additional 2007 acquisitions requiring funding of approximately $50 &ndash; $75 million, aside from HSM which was acquired for $545 million in January 2007. During 2006, the Company entered into a sale leaseback transaction of its corporate headquarters building. Under the terms of the transaction, the Company received $23 million in cash proceeds, reported in investing cash flows, and recorded a deferred gain of $11 million which will be amortized over the 15 year operating lease term. The cash proceeds were utilized to pay down short term borrowings. 25 Financing Activities: The Company financed the HSM acquisition with proceeds from existing short term credit facilities and a new $500 million 364 day bridge facility entered into on January 8, 2007. The Company remains committed to its current credit ratings and intends to refinance this transaction with a combination of available cash, debt and equity linked securities, which it believes will be consistent with maintaining those ratings. Management does not anticipate the need to issue common equity in the short term in order to achieve this objective. However, the above refinancing is expected to entail the issuance of common stock in the medium term. Payments on long term debt amounted to $4 million in 2006, $72 million in 2005 and $154 million in 2004. Payments in 2004 reflect the maturity of $120 million of debt on March 1, 2004. Net repayments of short term borrowings in 2006 amounted to a cash outflow of $66 million as the Company paid down commercial paper utilizing a portion of the strong operating cash flows. Net short term borrowings provided cash inflows of $103 million in 2005 and $20 million in 2004. The increase in 2005 was primarily attributed to commercial paper issued to fund the 2005 acquisitions aside from National. In November 2005, the Company consummated a Section 144A offering, with registration rights, of $450 million of Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (ETPS) through its unconsolidated trust subsidiary, The Stanley Works Capital Trust I (the Trust). Contemporaneously, the Company borrowed the proceeds of the ETPS offering from the Trust by issuing $450 million of junior subordinated debt securities payable to the Trust. The net proceeds were used to partially fund the acquisitions of National and Facom which closed on November 30, 2005 and January 1, 2006, respectively. These securities and underlying junior subordinated debt securities (collectively, the securities) feature a 5 year fixed rate period ending December 1, 2010 and a floating rate period ending December 1, 2045. The fixed coupon was set at 5.902%. The obligations, tenor and terms of the ETPS mirror those of the junior subordinated debt securities. The securities can be redeemed by the Company on or after December 1, 2010 without penalty for early payment. In 2005, the Company amended its long term (multi year) $400 million committed credit facility by increasing the facility size to $550 million and adding a multi currency sub limit of $250 million available in Euros or Pound Sterling. This long term credit facility matures in October 2009. In addition, the Company has short term lines of credit with numerous foreign banks aggregating $251 million, of which $191 million was available at December 30, 2006. Short term arrangements are reviewed annually for renewal. Aggregate credit lines amounted to $801 million. The $550 million committed credit facility is designated as a liquidity back stop for the Companys commercial paper program. As of December 30, 2006 there were no outstanding loans under this facility and the Company had $31 million of commercial paper outstanding. In addition to these lines of credit, the Company maintains a committed facility designed for the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable for purposes of additional liquidity. As of December 30, 2006, the Companys maximum available funds under this arrangement were $87 million, of which $60 million was utilized. In 2003, the Company filed a Shelf Registration in the amount of $900 million. At December 30, 2006, the Shelf Registration was unutilized. This filing represents a prospectus which, if accompanied by a prospectus supplement, would allow the Company to offer, issue and sell, together or separately, debt, equity and other securities. The Company increased its cash dividend per common share to $1.18 in 2006. Dividends per common share increased 3.5% in 2006, 5.5% in 2005 and 4.9% in 2004. In 2006, the Company completed a stock repurchase program whereby it repurchased 4 million outstanding shares of its common stock for $200 million. The Company will continue to assess the possibility of repurchasing more of its outstanding common stock, based on a number of factors including the level of acquisition activity, the market price of the Companys common stock and the current financial condition of the Company. The Companys debt to capital ratio was 39% at the end of 2006, 42% at the end of 2005 and 32% at the end of 2004. Reflecting the credit protection measures that are incorporated into the terms of the $450 million ETPS, the debt to capital ratio of the Company is more fairly represented by apportioning 50% of the ETPS issuance to equity when making the calculation. The resulting debt to 26 capital ratio from this apportionment is 30% as of December 30, 2006. This adjustment is consistent with the treatment accorded these securities by the nationally recognized statistical ratings organizations that rate the Companys debt securities. Contractual Obligations: The following summarizes the Companys significant contractual obligations and commitments that impact its liquidity: Payments Due by Period (Millions of Dollars) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Long term debt $ 910 $ 230 $ 20 $ 8 $ 652 Operating leases 111 29 38 21 23 Deferred compensation 40 5 10 12 13 Pension funding obligations(a) 17 17 &mdash; &mdash; &mdash; Material purchase commitments 36 9 18 9 &mdash; Outsourcing and other obligations 32 19 13 &mdash; &mdash; Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,146 $ 309 $ 99 $ 50 $ 688 (a) The Company anticipates that funding of its pension and postretirement benefit plans in 2007 will approximate $17 million. That amount principally represents contributions either required by regulations or laws or, with respect to unfunded plans, necessary to fund current benefits. The Company has not presented estimated pension and postretirement funding in the table above beyond 2007 as funding can vary significantly from year to year based upon changes in the fair value of the plan assets, actuarial assumptions, or curtailment/settlement actions. Aside from debt payments, for which there is no tax benefit associated with repayment of principal, payment of the above contractual obligations will typically generate a cash tax benefit such that the net cash outflow will be lower than the gross amounts indicated. Other Commercial Commitments Amounts of Commitments Expiration Per Period (Millions of Dollars) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter U.S. lines of credit $ 550 $ &mdash; $ 550 $ &mdash; $ &mdash; U.S. receivables securitization facility 87 87 &mdash; &mdash; &mdash; International lines of credit 251 251 &mdash; &mdash; &mdash; Total commercial commitments $ 888 $ 338 $ 550 $ &mdash; $ &mdash; Short term borrowings, long term debt and lines of credit are explained in detail within Note I Long Term Debt and Financing Arrangements of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating leases and other commercial commitments are further detailed in Note R Commitments and Guarantees of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. MARKET RISK Market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments, currencies, commodities and other items traded in global markets. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, stock prices, and commodity prices. Exposure to foreign currency risk results because the Company, through its global businesses, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. The Companys predominant exposures are in European, Canadian and Asian currencies, including the Chinese Renminbi (RMB) and the Taiwan Dollar. Certain cross currency trade flows arising from sales and procurement activities as well as affiliate cross border activity are consolidated and netted prior to obtaining risk protection, primarily purchased basket options. The Company is thus able to capitalize on its global positioning by taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures and portfolio efficiencies to reduce the cost of purchasing protection. At times, the Company also enters 27 into forward exchange contracts and purchased options to reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of non functional currency denominated receivables and payables, predominately for affiliate transactions. Gains and losses from these hedging instruments offset the gains or losses on the underlying net exposures, assets and liabilities being hedged. Management determines the nature and extent of currency hedging activities, and in certain cases, may elect to allow certain currency exposures to remain unhedged. The Company has also entered into several cross currency interest rate swaps, to provide a partial hedge of the net investments in certain subsidiaries and better match the cash flows of operations to debt service requirements. Sensitivity to foreign currency exposure risk from these financial instruments at the end of 2006 would have been immaterial based on the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in all currencies. The Company follows risk management policies in executing derivative financial instrument transactions, and does not use such instruments for speculative purposes. On July 21, 2005, China announced it will allow the RMB to fluctuate within a very tight band (+/&minus; .3% around the weighted average prior day close) thereby effectively adopting a managed float and ending its decade old valuation de facto peg to the U.S. Dollar (USD). The initial appreciation was 2%. Besides the initial move, the effect of that policy shift during 2006 was negligible as total appreciation of the RMB versus the USD at year end amounted to only 3%. The Company sources significant products from China and other Asian low cost countries for resale in other regions. To the extent the RMB or these other currencies appreciate with respect to the USD, the Company may experience cost increases on such purchases. While the present 3% appreciation of the RMB should not generate material cost increases for RMB denominated purchases, further appreciation of this or other currencies utilized for procurement could adversely affect profitability. In the event significant RMB or other currency appreciation occurs, the Company would initiate customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases, but it is possible such actions would not fully offset the potential unfavorable impact. The Companys exposure to interest rate risk results from its outstanding debt obligations, short term investments, and derivative financial instruments employed in the management of its debt portfolio. The debt portfolio is managed to achieve capital structure targets and reduce the overall cost of borrowing by using a combination of fixed and floating rate debt as well as interest rate swaps, and cross currency swaps. The Companys primary exposure to interest rate risk comes from its floating rate debt in the U.S. and Europe and is fairly represented by changes in LIBOR and EURIBOR rates. At December 30, 2006, the result of a hypothetical two percentage point increase in short term LIBOR and EURIBOR rates would not have resulted in a material impact on the pre tax profit of the Company. The Company has exposure to commodity prices in many businesses, particularly brass, nickel, resin, aluminum, copper, zinc, steel, and energy used in the production of finished goods. Generally, commodity price exposures are not hedged with derivative financial instruments, but instead are actively managed through customer pricing actions, procurement driven cost reduction initiatives and other productivity improvement projects. In 2005, the Company experienced approximately $40 million of commodity and energy inflation, most of which was recovered through favorable pricing actions. Such inflation increased costs by approximately $45 million in 2006, which management mitigated through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives. If commodity prices fluctuated to reach new historical high levels, similar to those experienced in 2004, the Companys exposure could increase from the expected levels for 2007 as previously discussed. Fluctuations in the fair value of the Companys common stock affect domestic retirement plan expense as discussed in the ESOP section of Managements Discussion and Analysis. The assets held by the Companys defined benefit plans are exposed to fluctuations in the market value of securities, primarily global stocks and fixed income securities. The funding obligations for these plans would increase in the event of adverse changes in the plan asset values. The Company employs a conservative asset allocation as well as investment consultants to mitigate this risk. Management has worked to minimize this exposure by freezing and terminating defined benefit plans where appropriate. 28 Sales to The Home Depot amounted to 10% of 2006 consolidated net sales from continuing operations. The Company has other significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, though individually there are none that exceed 10% of consolidated sales. The loss or material reduction of business from any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations and cash flows, until either such customers were replaced or the Company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. The Company has access to financial resources and borrowing capabilities around the world. There are no material instruments within the debt structure that would accelerate payment requirements due to a change in credit rating. The Company has the flexibility to elect deferral of interest payments on its ETPS obligation for up to 5 years. The Company believes that its strong financial position, operating cash flows, committed long term credit facilities and borrowing capacity, and ready access to equity markets provide the financial flexibility necessary to continue its record of annual dividend payments, to invest in the routine needs of its businesses, to make strategic acquisitions and to fund other initiatives encompassed by its growth strategy. OTHER MATTERS ENVIRONMENTAL The Company incurs costs related to environmental issues as a result of various laws and regulations governing current operations as well as the remediation of previously contaminated sites. Future laws and regulations are expected to be increasingly stringent and will likely increase the Companys expenditures related to routine environmental matters. The Company accrues for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts in accordance with appropriate accounting guidelines which address probability and the ability to reasonably estimate future costs. The liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances become better defined or remediation efforts and their costs can be better estimated. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future environmental costs, the Company believes that any sum it may pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of the amounts recorded will not have a materially adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Refer to Note S Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on environmental liabilities and related cash flows. EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN As detailed in Note M Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) under which the ongoing U.S. defined contribution and 401(K) plans are funded. Overall ESOP expense is affected by the market value of Stanley stock on the monthly dates when shares are released, among other factors. Net ESOP expense amounted to $2 million in each of the years 2006, 2005 and 2004. While the average market value of shares released increased from $43.20 in 2004 to $49.28 in 2006, other elements of ESOP expense, including a gradual reduction in the number of shares released annually from the trust, offset the favorable impact of the higher share price. ESOP expense could increase in the future if the market value of the Companys common stock declines. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Refer to Note A Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements and the potential impact to the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial position. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are described in Note A Significant Accounting Policies. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters with inherent uncertainty. The most significant areas involving management estimates are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ from managements estimates. ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The Companys estimate for its allowance for doubtful accounts related to trade receivables is based on two methods. The amounts calculated from 29 each of these methods are combined to determine the total amount reserved. First, the Company evaluates specific accounts where information indicates the customers may have an inability to meet financial obligations, such as bankruptcy. In these cases, the Company uses its judgment, based on the best available facts and circumstances, to record a specific reserve for those customers against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount expected to be collected. These specific reserves are reevaluated and adjusted as additional information is received. Second, a reserve is established for all customers based on a range of percentages applied to receivables aging categories. These percentages are based on historical collection and write off experience. If circumstances change, for example, the occurrence of higher than expected defaults or a material adverse change in a major customers ability to meet its financial obligation to the Company, estimates of the recoverability of receivable amounts due could be reduced. INVENTORIES &mdash; LOWER OF COST OR MARKET, SLOW MOVING AND OBSOLETE U.S. inventories are predominantly valued at the lower of LIFO cost or market. The calculation of LIFO reserves, and therefore the net inventory valuation, is affected by inflation and deflation in inventory components. The Company ensures all inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market, and continually reviews the carrying value of discontinued product lines and stock keeping units (SKUs) to determine that these items are properly valued. The Company also continually evaluates the composition of its inventory and identifies obsolete and or slow moving inventories. Inventory items identified as obsolete and or slow moving are evaluated to determine if reserves are required. The Company identifies these inventories and assesses the ability to dispose of them at a price greater than cost. If it is determined that cost is less than market value, cost is used for inventory valuation. If market value is less than cost, the Company writes down the related inventory to that value. If a write down to the current market value is necessary, the market value cannot be greater than the net realizable value, or ceiling (defined as selling price less costs to sell and dispose), and cannot be lower than the net realizable value less a normal profit margin, also called the floor. If the Company is not able to achieve its expectations regarding net realizable value of inventory at its current value, reserves would have to be adjusted accordingly. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Company completed acquisitions in 2006 and 2005 valued at $552 million and $289 million, respectively. The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are recorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the underlying net assets of acquired businesses. The Company reported $1.1 billion of goodwill and $298 million of indefinite lived trade names at December 30, 2006. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment testing. The identification and measurement of goodwill and unamortized intangible asset impairment involves the estimation of fair value. The valuation of goodwill also requires the identification and valuation of reporting units. The estimates of fair value of goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and related reporting units are based on the best information available at the date of assessment, which primarily incorporate management assumptions about future cash flows. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in industry or market conditions or the rate and extent to which anticipated synergies or cost savings are realized with newly acquired entities. While the Company has not recorded goodwill or other intangible asset impairment losses in many years, it is possible impairments may occur in the future in the event expected profitability, cash flows or trade name usage change significantly from current estimates. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT The Company generally values Property, Plant and Equipment (PP&E) at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Impairment losses are recorded when indicators of impairment, such as plant closures, are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount. The impairment loss is quantified by comparing the carrying amount of the assets to the weighted average discounted cash flows, which consider various possible outcomes for the disposition of the assets (i.e. sale, leasing, etc.). Primarily as a result of plant rationalization, certain facilities and equipment are not currently used in operations. The Company has previously recorded impairment losses related to unused and under utilized assets, and such losses may occur in the future. 30 RISK INSURANCE To some extent, the Company self insures for various business exposures. For domestic workers compensation and product liability, the Company generally purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses (stop loss insurance). The two risk areas involving the most significant accounting estimates are workers compensation and product liability (liability for alleged injuries associated with the Companys products). Actuarial valuations performed by an outside risk insurance expert form the basis for workers compensation and product liability loss reserves recorded. The actuary contemplates the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors to estimate the range of reserves required. Risk insurance reserves are comprised of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts expected for development of these claims, as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified by third party administrator specialists (insurance companies) for workers compensation and by in house legal counsel in consultation with outside attorneys for product liability. The cash outflows related to risk insurance claims are expected to occur over approximately 8 to 10 years, and the present value of expected future claim payments is reserved. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of December 30, 2006 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve estimation process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. WARRANTY The Company provides product and service warranties which vary across its businesses. The types of warranties offered generally range from one year to limited lifetime, while certain products carry no warranty. Further, the Company sometimes incurs discretionary costs to service its products in connection with product performance issues. Historical warranty and service claim experience forms the basis for warranty obligations recognized. Adjustments are recorded to the warranty liability as new information becomes available. The Company believes the liability recorded for expected warranty claims as of December 30, 2006 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve estimation process, including forecasting future product reliability levels and costs of repair as well as the estimated age of certain items submitted for claims, the ultimate claim costs may differ from the recorded warranty liability. INCOME TAXES The future tax benefit arising from net deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards is $126 million at December 30, 2006 and $97 million at December 31, 2005. The Company believes earnings during the periods when the temporary differences become deductible will be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. For those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax loss carry forwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance is provided. The valuation allowance as of December 30, 2006 amounted to $27 million. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the Company estimates future taxable income, considering the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax loss carry forwards. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be impacted by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future taxable income levels. In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or a portion of its deferred tax assets in the future, the unrealizable amount would be charged to earnings in the period in which that determination is made. By contrast, if the Company were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net carrying amounts, it would decrease the recorded valuation allowance through a favorable earnings adjustment in the period in which that determination is made. The Company periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years still under audit based on the most current available information. When it is deemed probable that an adjustment will be asserted, the Company accrues its best estimate of the tax liability, inclusive of related interest charges. See Note Q Income Taxes of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Companys off balance sheet arrangements include the following: RECEIVABLE SECURITIZATIONS The Company has agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, pools of accounts and notes receivables to a Qualified Special Purpose Entity (QSPE), which 31 qualifies to be accounted for as an unconsolidated subsidiary. The entity is designed to facilitate the securitization of certain trade accounts receivable. Assets and related debt off balance sheet were both $60 million at December 30, 2006, compared to $16 million as of December 31, 2005. The Company is responsible for servicing these accounts while the QSPE bears the risk of non collection. Sales of eligible receivables in 2006 amounted to $44 million compared to $5 million in the prior year. There were no gains or losses on these sales. SYNTHETIC LEASES The Company is a party to synthetic leasing programs for two of its major distribution centers and certain personal property, predominately vehicles and equipment. The programs qualify as operating leases for accounting purposes, such that only the monthly rent expense is recorded in the Statement of Operations and the liability and value of the underlying assets are off balance sheet. These lease programs are utilized primarily to reduce overall cost and to retain flexibility. As of December 30, 2006, the estimated fair value of assets and remaining obligations for these properties were $95 million and $72 million, respectively. TRUST The Company owns 100% of the common stock ($0.1 million) of The Stanley Works Capital Trust I (the Trust) which was formed in 2005 to initiate the offering of the $450 million Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (ETPS). However, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51 (FIN 46R), the Trust is not consolidated. Since the $450 million of junior subordinated debt issued by the Company to the Trust is reflected on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 30, 2006, consolidation of the Trust would have virtually no impact to the Companys results of operations or financial position. CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including, but not limited to, the statements regarding the Companys ability to: (i) obtain supplies for raw materials used in its production process; (ii) build a growth platform in security while expanding the branded tools and hardware platforms; (iii) expand efforts to leverage SFS across the enterprise to increase working capital turns, decrease cycle times, and increase customer satisfaction; (iv) the HSM acquisition will be neutral to earnings in 2007, increasing to $0.20 $0.25 per diluted share in 2009, together with approximately $38 million of non cash intangible asset amortization in 2007 relating to acquired contracts; (v) continue various integration and process improvements throughout 2007 and 2008; (vi) grow the branded tools and hardware businesses through innovative product development, brand support and relentless focus on global cost competitiveness for vitality over the long term as well as pursue acquisition related growth where appropriate; (vii) continue cost reduction actions and integration of the Facom and National acquisitions throughout 2007 including cost structure reformation for long term competitiveness and preservation of the Facom and Stanley tool franchises in Europe; (viii) implement growth strategies and reduce costs with these Initiatives, estimate and limit the expenditures incurred under these Initiatives to approximately $75 million and complete these Initiatives during 2007; (ix) leverage the Besco acquisition to reduce the fastenings system business cost structure and facilitate business in emerging markets; (x) offset the expected negative impact of inflation of $60 $65 million in 2007 through customer pricing and productivity actions; (xi) return the fastening systems business to profitability and restore its long term cost competitiveness; (xii) keep future capital expenditure increases approximately in proportion to sales growth; (xiii) deploy capital to its shareholders advantage through a combination of acquisitions, dividends, debt repayment and potential share repurchases; (xiv) make dispositions and acquisitions in favored markets while minimizing the risk associated with large customer concentrations; (xv) complete additional 2007 acquisitions requiring funding of approximately $50 &ndash; $75 million; (xvi) refinance the bridge facility entered into on January 8, 2007 and related HSM acquisition borrowings with a combination of available cash, debt and equity linked securities and not issue common equity in the short term but expect to issue common equity in the medium term, (xvii) limit the increase in the 2007 effective income tax rate to a range of 25% to 27% of pre tax earnings; (xviii) limit the impact of restructuring charges in 2007 to approximately $0.20 per diluted share; 32 (xix) continue its record of annual dividend payments to invest in the routine needs of its businesses, to make strategic acquisitions and to fund other initiatives of its growth strategy; and (xx) maintain its current credit ratings are forward looking statements and are based on current expectations. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. There are a number of risks, uncertainties and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements. In addition, to any such risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed elsewhere herein, the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements include, without limitation, those set forth under Item 1A Risk Factors hereto, those contained in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those set forth below. The Companys ability to achieve the results described above is dependent on: (i) the success of the Companys efforts to maintain raw material supplies; (ii) build the security platform while expanding branded tools and hardware; (iii) reinvest free cash flow and improve working capital efficiency; (iv) integration of the HSM acquisition having a neutral impact on 2007 earnings with approximately $38 million of non cash intangible asset amortization in 2007 relating to acquired contracts, and contributing diluted earnings per share accretion of $0.20 $0.25 in 2009; (v) the success of various process improvements; (vi) the Companys success at completing acquisitions for the branded tools and hardware businesses, innovation in those businesses, brand support and maintaining relentless focus on global cost competitiveness; (vii) the Companys successful implementation of SFS and cost reduction actions and integration of the various acquisitions including cost structure reformation; (viii) the Companys ability to limit the expenditures incurred under these Initiatives to approximately $75 million and complete facility rationalization; (ix) the Companys ability to leverage the Besco acquisition to reduce the fastenings system business cost structure and facilitate business in emerging markets; (x) the Companys ability to implement customer pricing actions and continue cost reduction and productivity initiatives to offset the expected inflation in 2007; (xi) successful implementation of cost reduction initiatives for the fastening system business including migration of production to Asia, reduction of overall SG&A and the manufacturing footprint, as well as SKU rationalization; (xii) the Companys ability to keep future capital expenditure increases approximately in proportion to its sales growth; (xiii) the Companys ability to generate free cash flow and maintain a strong credit position; (xiv) the Companys ability to continue to implement its profitable growth strategy; and (xv) the successful completion by the Company of a debt and equity linked securities refinancing and such refinancing being consistent with the Companys current credit ratings; (xvi) the Companys successful settlement of routine tax audits; (xvii) the ability of the Company to generate earnings sufficient to realize future income tax benefits during periods when temporary differences become deductible; (xviii) the continued ability of the Company to access credit markets under satisfactory terms; (xix) satisfactory payment terms under which the Company buys and sells goods, materials and products; (xx) the ability of the Company to fulfill increasing demand for its products; (xxi) the success of recruiting programs and other efforts to maintain or expand overall Mac Tool truck count versus prior years; (xxii) changes in trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies and laws; (xxiii) the strength of the U.S. economy as well as the economies of the other countries in which the Company operates; (xxiv) the impact of events that cause or may cause disruption in the Companys distribution and sales networks such as war, terrorist activities, political unrest and recessionary or expansive trends in the economies of the countries in which the Company operates; and (xxv) the Companys ability to maintain its fiancial position, operating cash flows, committed long term credit facilities borrowing capacity. Unless required by applicable federal securities laws, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures made on related subjects in the Companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company incorporates by reference the material captioned Market Risk in Item 7 and the material in Note J Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 33 
 
