Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Production Gas (Mmcf) 89,595 70,713 57,609 Crude oil (Mbbls) 3,360 3,039 2,929 Natural gas liquids (Mbbls) 1,115 1,092 1,012 Total (Mmcfe) (a) 116,441 95,498 81,253 Revenues ($000) Gas $ 613,454 $ 418,183 $ 354,728 Crude oil 202,931 144,251 113,153 Natural gas liquids 46,152 36,705 27,589 Transportation and gathering 2,290 2,422 2,306 Derivative fair value income (loss) (7,767 ) 142,395 10,303 Less: Mark to market component of derivative fair value income (loss) (c) 79,589 (92,456 ) (7,397 ) Total 936,649 651,500 500,682 Direct operating expenses (b) 108,741 81,261 57,866 Production and ad valorem taxes 42,443 36,415 30,822 Gross margin $ 785,465 $ 533,824 $ 411,994 Average sales price (wellhead) Gas (per mcf) $ 6.54 $ 6.59 $ 8.00 Crude oil (per bbl) 67.47 62.36 53.30 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 41.40 33.62 31.52 Total (per mcfe) (a) 7.37 7.25 7.99 Average realized price (including all derivative settlements) Gas (per mcf) $ 7.66 $ 6.62 $ 6.21 Crude oil (per bbl) 60.16 47.46 38.63 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 41.40 33.62 27.27 Total (per mcfe) (a) 8.02 6.80 6.13 Operating costs (per mcfe) Direct (b) $ 0.93 $ 0.85 $ 0.71 Production and ad valorem taxes 0.36 0.38 0.38 Total operating costs $ 1.29 $ 1.23 $ 1.09 Gross margin (per mcfe) $ 6.74 $ 5.59 $ 5.07 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. (b) 2007 direct operating expenses include $1.8 million (or $0.02 per mcfe) of stock based compensation. 2006 direct operating expenses include $1.4 million (or $0.01 per mcfe) of stock based compensation. (c) By adding this component, the total reflects realized gains (losses) on those derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and excludes unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Employees As of January 1, 2008, we had 733 full time employees, 371 of whom were field personnel. All full time employees are eligible to receive equity awards approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. No employees are covered by a labor union or other collective bargaining arrangement. We believe that the relationship with our employees is excellent. We regularly use independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services, particularly in the areas of drilling, completion, field, on site production operation services and certain accounting functions. 4 Table of Contents Available Information We maintain an internet website under the name www.rangeresources.com. We make available, free of charge, on our website, the annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after providing such reports to the SEC. Also, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Dividend Committee, and the Governance and Nominating Committee, and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on our website and in print to any stockholder who provides a written request to the Corporate Secretary at 100 Throckmorton Street, Suite 1200, Fort Worth, Texas 76102. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all directors, officers and employees, including the chief executive officer and senior financial officers. We file annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. Also, the SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Range, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any document we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this report or any other filing that we make with the SEC. Competition We encounter substantial competition in developing and acquiring oil and gas properties, securing and retaining personnel, conducting drilling and field operations and marketing production. Competitors in exploration, development, acquisitions and production include the major oil companies as well as numerous independent oil companies, individual proprietors and others. Although our sizable acreage position and core area concentration provide some competitive advantages, many competitors have financial and other resources substantially exceeding ours. Therefore, competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources allow. Our ability to replace and expand our reserve base depends on our ability to attract and retain quality personnel and identify and acquire suitable producing properties and prospects for future drilling. Marketing and Customers We market nearly all of our oil and gas production from the properties we operate for both our interest and that of the other working interest owners and royalty owners. We sell our gas pursuant to a variety of contractual arrangements; generally month to month and one to five year contracts. Less than 1% of our production is subject to contracts longer than five years. Pricing on the month to month and short term contracts is based largely on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) pricing, with fixed or floating basis. For one to five year contracts, we sell our gas on NYMEX pricing, published regional index pricing or percentage of proceeds sales based on local indices. We sell less than 500 mcf per day under long term fixed price contracts. Many contracts contain provisions for periodic price adjustment, termination and other terms customary in the industry. We sell our gas to utilities, marketing companies and industrial users. We sell our oil under contracts ranging in terms from month to month, up to as long as one year. The pricing for oil is based upon the posted prices set by major purchasers in the production area or upon NYMEX pricing or fixed pricing. All oil pricing is adjusted for quality and transportation. Oil and gas purchasers are selected on the basis of price, credit quality and service. For a summary of purchasers of our oil and gas production that accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenue, see Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. Because alternative purchasers of oil and gas are usually readily available, we believe that the loss of any of these purchasers would not have a material adverse effect on us. We enter into hedging transactions with unaffiliated third parties for significant portions of our production to achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to short term fluctuations in oil and gas prices. For a more detailed discussion, see the information set forth in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Proximity to local markets, availability of competitive fuels and overall supply and demand are factors affecting the prices for which our production can be sold. Market volatility due to international political developments, overall energy supply and demand, fluctuating weather conditions, economic growth rates and other factors in the United States and worldwide have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on energy prices. We incur gathering and transportation expenses to move our natural gas and crude oil from the wellhead and tanks to purchaser specified delivery points. These expenses vary based on volume, distance shipped and the fee charged by the third party transporters. In the Southwestern and Gulf Coast Areas, our natural gas and oil production are transported primarily through third party trucks, gathering systems and pipelines. Transportation space on these gathering systems and pipelines is occasionally limited. In Appalachia, we own approximately 5,100 miles of gas gathering pipelines which transport a majority 5 Table of Contents of our Appalachian gas production as well as third party gas to transmission lines and directly to end users and interstate pipelines. For additional information, see Risk Factors Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities, many of which are owned by others, in Item 1A of this report. Governmental Regulation Our operations are substantially affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations. In particular, oil and gas production and related operations are, or have been, subject to price controls, taxes and numerous other laws and regulations. All of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate producing crude oil and natural gas properties have statutory provisions regulating the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas, including provisions related to permits for the drilling of wells, bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, and the abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells which may be drilled in an area, and the unitization or pooling of crude oil and natural gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individuals wells. In August 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005). Among other matters, the EPAct 2005 amends the Natural Gas Act (NGA), to make it unlawful for any entity, including otherwise non jurisdictional producers such as Range, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), in contravention of rules prescribed by the FERC. On January 20, 2006, the FERC issued rules implementing this provision. The rules make it unlawful in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1,000,000 per day per violation. The new anti manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non jurisdictional sale or gathering, but does apply to activities or otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction. It therefore reflects a significant expansion of FERCs enforcement authority. Range does not anticipate it will be affected any differently than other producers of natural gas. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, such laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil and gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the FERC, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. Environmental and Occupational Matters Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Numerous governmental departments such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issue regulations to implement and enforce such laws, which are often difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, production and transporting through pipelines, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier and other protected areas, require some form of remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen pits and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. In addition, these laws and regulations may restrict the rate of production. The regulatory burden imposed on the oil and gas industry by these laws and regulations increases the cost of doing business, affecting growth and profitability. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal or clean up requirements could adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as the industry in general. We believe we are in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with environmental requirements, there is no assurance that this will continue. We did not have any material capital or other non recurring expenditures in connection with complying with environmental laws or environmental remediation matters in 2007, nor do we anticipate that such expenditures will be material in 2008. 6 Table of Contents The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, (CERCLA), known as the Superfund law, and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include owners or operators of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damages allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants into the environment pursuant to environmental statutes, common law or both. Although petroleum, including crude oil and natural gas, is not a hazardous substance under CERCLA, at least two courts have ruled that certain wastes associated with the production of crude oil may be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA and that such wastes may therefore give rise to liability under CERCLA. While we generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances, we have not received notification that we may be potentially responsible for cleanup costs under CERCLA. Beyond CERCLA, state laws regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes, and periodically new state legislative initiatives are proposed that could have a significant impact on us. We also may incur liability under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended (RCRA), which imposes requirements related to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. While there exists an exclusion from the definition of hazardous wastes for drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy, these wastes may be regulated by the EPA or state agencies as non hazardous solid waste. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils, can be regulated as hazardous wastes. Although the costs of managing wastes classified as hazardous waste may be significant, we do not expect to experience more burdensome costs than similarly situated companies. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Although we used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes was not under our control. These properties and the materials disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other oil and gas wastes, into federal and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or the state. These laws provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for any unauthorized discharges of oil and other hazardous substances in reportable quantities and may impose substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and maintain approvals or permits for the discharge of wastewater or storm water and are required to develop and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans, also referred to as SPCC plans, in connection with on site storage of greater than threshold quantities of oil. We are currently undertaking a review of recently acquired oil and gas properties to determine the need for new or updated SPCC plans and, where necessary, we will be developing or upgrading such plans, the costs of which are not expected to be substantial. The Clean Air Act, as amended, and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including compressor stations. These laws and any implementing regulations may require us to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent air permit requirements, or use specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. While we may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next few years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits addressing other air emission related issues, we do not believe that such requirements will have a material adverse affect on our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those of the oil and gas industry in general. For instance, recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is actively considering climate change related legislation to restrict greenhouse gas emissions. One bill recently approved by the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, known as the Lieberman Warner Climate Security Act or S. 2191, would require a 70% reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from sources within the United States between 2012 and 2050. A vote on 7 Table of Contents this bill by the full Senate is expected to occur before mid year 2008. In addition, at least 17 states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Also, as a result of the U.S. Supreme Courts decision on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, the EPA may be required to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources (e.g., cars and trucks) even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. The EPA has indicated that it will issue a rulemaking notice to address greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles and automobile fuels, although the date for the issuance of this notice has not been finalized. The Courts holding in Massachusetts that greenhouse gases fall under the federal Clean Air Acts definition of air pollutant may also result in future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources under certain Clean Air Act programs. New legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas where we conduct business could adversely affect our operations and demand for our products. We are also subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) and comparable state laws that regulate the protection of the health and safety of employees. In addition, OSHAs hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with the OSHA requirements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business Volatility of oil and natural gas prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources and could hamper our ability to produce oil and gas economically Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in prices would adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. The oil and natural gas industry is typically cyclical, and prices for oil and natural gas have been highly volatile. Historically, the industry has experienced severe downturns characterized by oversupply and or weak demand. Higher oil and natural gas prices have contributed to our positive earnings over the last several years. However, long term supply and demand for oil and natural gas is uncertain and subject to a myriad of factors such as: the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; the price and availability of alternative fuels; weather conditions; the level of consumer demand; the price of foreign imports; world wide economic conditions; political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and domestic and foreign governmental regulations. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices from current levels could adversely affect our revenues, net income, cash flow and proved reserves. Significant price decreases could have a material adverse effect on our operations and limit our ability to fund capital expenditures. Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves and production. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks To manage our exposure to price risk, we, from time to time, enter into hedging arrangements, utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a significant portion of our future production. The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices rise above the price established by the hedge. 8 Table of Contents In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: our production is less than expected; the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices or the relationship between the hedged price index and the oil and gas sales price. Information concerning our reserves and future net reserve estimates is uncertain There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved reserves are by their nature uncertain. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could be material. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of oil and natural gas reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated: the amount and timing of oil and natural gas production; the revenues and costs associated with that production; and the amount and timing of future development expenditures. The discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves included in this Report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based generally on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and natural gas industry in general. If oil and natural gas prices decrease or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to record write downs of our oil and natural gas properties In the past, we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our oil and natural gas properties, and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional write downs in the future. This could occur when oil and natural gas prices are low, or if we have downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of operating or development costs, deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where the cost to redrill or repair does not justify the expense. Accounting rules require that the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties be periodically reviewed for possible impairment. Impairment is recognized when the book value of a proven property is greater than the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that property and on acreage when conditions indicate the carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required to write down the carrying value of a property based on oil and natural gas prices at the time of the impairment review, as well as a continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data, economics and other factors. While an impairment charge reflects our long term ability to recover an investment, it does not impact cash or cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce our reported earnings and increases our leverage ratios. Our business is subject to operating hazards and environmental regulations that could result in substantial losses or liabilities that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies Oil and natural gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic natural gas and other environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of: 9 Table of Contents injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution or other environmental damage; clean up responsibilities; regulatory investigations and penalties; or suspension of operations. As we drill to deeper horizons and in more geologically complex areas, we could experience a greater increase in operating and financial risks due to inherent higher reservoir pressures and unknown downhole risk exposures. As we continue to drill deeper, the number of rigs capable of drilling to such depths will be fewer and we may experience greater competition from other operators. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Recently, we have experienced substantial increases in premiums especially in areas affected by the hurricanes and tropical storms. Insurers have imposed revised limits affecting how much the insurers will pay on actual storm claims plus the cost to re drill wells where substantial damage has been incurred. Insurers are also requiring us to retain larger deductibles and reducing the scope of what insurable losses will include. Even with the increase in future insurance premiums, coverage will be reduced, requiring us to bear a greater potential risk if our oil and gas properties are damaged. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example at December 31, 2007, approximately 74% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the remaining 26% subject to variable interest rates. Recent unfavorable disclosures concerning the sub prime mortgage market may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our business and marketing oil and natural gas. Competitors include multinational oil companies, independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or weather industry downturns more easily than we can. The demand for field services and their ability to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill and produce our oil and natural gas properties Due to current industry demands, well service providers and related equipment and personnel are in short supply. This is causing escalating prices, the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures will likely increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use of equipment and inexperienced personnel. In some cases, we are operating in new areas where services and infrastructure do not exist or in urban areas which are more restrictive. The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive regulation The oil and natural gas industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United States by local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous departments and agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on participants in the oil and natural gas industry. Compliance with such rules and regulations often increases our cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases our profitability. 10 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws, regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property damage or injuries to employees and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and even may be caused by previous owners of property we own or lease. Any past, present or future failure by us to completely comply with environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could cause us to incur substantial fines, sanctions or liabilities from cleanup costs or other damages. Incurrence of those costs or damages could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses. Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It generally is not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily, a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed. For example, in 1997, we consummated a large acquisition that proved extremely disappointing. Production from the acquired properties fell more rapidly than anticipated and further development results were below the results we had originally projected. The poor production performance of these properties resulted in material downward reserve revisions. There is no assurance that our recent and or future acquisition activity will not result in similarly disappointing results. In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or regulatory approvals. Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with recent and future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel, none of which is currently subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise. Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce Because the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire and produce additional oil and natural gas reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future oil and natural gas production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost. Drilling is a high risk activity The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce 11 Table of Contents enough oil and natural gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of other factors, including: high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor, or other services; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; reductions in oil and natural gas prices; limitations in the market for oil and natural gas; adverse weather conditions; facility or equipment malfunctions; equipment failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures; casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipelines ruptures, and discharges of toxic gases; lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations; loss of drilling fluid circulation; pressure or irregularities in formations; fires; natural disasters; blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; and uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete The oil and natural gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by others The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The unavailability of or lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas. 12 Table of Contents The disruption of third party facilities due to maintenance and or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital resources estimated to range from $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion per year over the next three years, depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing operations will also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue additional acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase both to complete such acquisitions and to explore and develop any newly acquired properties. The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations; a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage; our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the general economy; breach the numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our existing credit agreements; our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future. Despite our current levels of indebtedness we still may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further increase the risks described above. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. We exist in a litigious environment Any constituent could bring suit or allege a violation of an existing contract. This action could delay when operations can actually commence or could cause a halt to production until such alleged violations are resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in defending our rights, planned operations could be delayed which would impact our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities. Our financial statements are complex Due to accounting rules and the nature of our business, our financial statements continue to be complex, particularly with reference to hedging, asset retirement obligations, equity awards, deferred taxes and the accounting for our deferred compensation plans. We expect such complexity to continue and possibly increase. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued Since 1998, we have exchanged 31.9 million shares of common stock for debt and convertible securities. The exchanges were made based on the relative market value of the common stock and the debt and convertible securities at the time of the exchange. Also in 2004 and 2005, we sold 33.8 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2006, we issued 6.5 million shares as part of the Stroud acquisition. In 2007, we sold 8.1 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. While the exchanges have reduced interest expense, preferred dividends and future repayment obligations, the larger number of common shares outstanding had a dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is limited by our bank credit facility and our senior subordinated note agreements. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock, additional subordinated notes or other securities or debt convertible into common stock, to extend maturities or fund capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders. Dividend limitations Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are imposed under our bank credit facility and under our senior subordinated note agreements. These limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends independent of our dividend policy. Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2007, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $12.34 per share to a high of $51.88 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: changes in oil and natural gas prices; variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; changes in market valuations of comparable companies; additions or departures of key personnel; or future sales of our stock. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The table below summarizes certain data for our core operating areas for the year ended December 31, 2007. All Gulf of Mexico operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations. Average Daily Total Percentage of Production Total Percentage Proved Total (mcfe Production of Total Reserves Proved Area per day) (mcfe) Production (Mmcfe) Reserves Southwest 194,060 70,832,032 61 % 1,048,314 47 % Appalachia 118,383 43,209,899 37 % 1,150,143 52 % Gulf Coast 6,573 2,399,084 2 % 34,305 1 % 319,016 116,441,015 100 % 2,232,762 100 % 14 Table of Contents We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments; therefore, segment reporting is not applicable to us. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Southwest Area The Southwest Area conducts drilling, production and field operations in the Barnett Shale of North Central Texas, the Permian Basin of West Texas and eastern New Mexico and the East Texas Basin as well as in the Texas Panhandle and the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma. In the Southwest Area, we own 2,928 net producing wells, 96% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 77%. We have approximately 802,000 gross (536,000 net) acres under lease. Total proved reserves increased 273.4 Bcfe, or 35%, at December 31, 2007 when compared to year end 2006. Production was more than offset by property purchases (30.2 Bcfe), drilling additions (293.5 Bcfe) and a favorable reserve revision. Annual production increased 28% over 2006. During 2007, the region spent $506.0 million to drill 290.0 (256.4 net) development wells, of which 282.0 (249.5 net) were productive and 6.0 (3.3 net) exploratory wells, of which 4.0 (2.8 net) were productive. During the year, the region achieved a 97% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2007, the Southwest Area had a development inventory of 397 proven drilling locations and 367 proven recompletions. During the year, the Southwest Area drilled 76 proven locations and added new locations of 188. Development projects include recompletions, infill drilling and to a lesser extent, installation of secondary recovery projects. These activities also include increasing reserves and production through cost control, upgrading lifting equipment, improving gathering systems and surface facilities and performing restimulations and refracturing operations. Appalachia Area Our properties in this area are located in the Appalachian Basin in the northeastern United States principally in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, West Virginia and Virginia. The reserves principally produce from the Pennsylvanian (coalbed formation), Upper Devonian, Medina, Clinton, Queenston, Big Lime, Marcellus Shale, Niagaran Reef, Knox, Huntersville Chert, Oriskany and Trenton Black River formations at depths ranging from 2,500 to 12,500 feet. Generally, after initial flush production, most of these properties are characterized by gradual decline rates, typically producing for 10 to 35 years. We own 10,800 net producing wells, 59% of which we operate and 5,100 miles of gas gathering lines. Our average working interest is 71%. We have approximately 2.5 million gross (2.1 million net) acres under lease which includes 407,800 acres where we also own a royalty interest. Reserves at December 31, 2007 increased 235.1 Bcfe, or 26%, from 2006 due to drilling additions (177.4 Bcfe) and property purchases (102.8 Bcfe) which were partially offset by production. Annual production increased 15% over 2006. During 2007, the region spent $278.1 million to drill 654.0 (427.7 net) development wells, of which 653.0 (426.7 net) were productive and 9 (5.5 net) exploratory wells, of which 7.0 (3.5 net) were productive. During the year, the region achieved approximately a 99% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2007, the Appalachia Area had an inventory of 3,600 proven drilling locations and 394 proven recompletions. During the year, the Appalachia Area drilled 321 proven locations and added 755 new locations. Gulf Coast Area The Gulf Coast properties are located onshore in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. Our major fields produce from Yegua formations at depths of 12,000 to 14,000 feet in the Upper Texas Gulf Coast, the Upper Oligocene in South Louisiana at depths of 10,000 to 12,000 feet and the Sligo and Hosston formations at depths of 15,000 to 16,500 feet in the Oakvale field in Mississippi. We have approximately 126,000 gross (83,000 net) acres under lease. We own 43 net producing wells in this Area, 98% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 57%. In the first quarter of 2007, we sold all of our offshore properties. Reserves decreased 33.9 Bcfe, or 50%, from 2006 with property sales (37.1 Bcfe), production and an unfavorable reserve revision partially offset by drilling additions (13.3 Bcfe). On an annual basis, production decreased 17% from 2006. During 2007, the region spent $34.8 million to drill 7.0 (4.3 net) development wells, of which all were productive and 1.0 (1.0 net) exploratory well that was not productive. During the year, the Area had a 81% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2007, the Gulf Coast Area had an inventory of 4 proven drilling locations and 16 proven recompletions. 15 Table of Contents Proved Reserves The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past five years: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Natural gas (Mmcf) Developed 1,144,709 875,395 724,876 580,006 344,187 Undeveloped 688,088 560,583 400,534 366,422 142,217 Total 1,832,797 1,435,978 1,125,410 946,428 486,404 Oil and NGLs (Mbbls) Developed 47,015 37,750 33,029 27,715 24,912 Undeveloped 19,645 15,957 13,863 10,451 8,111 Total 66,660 53,707 46,892 38,166 33,023 Total (Mmcfe) (a) 2,232,762 1,758,226 1,406,762 1,175,425 684,541 % Developed 64 % 63 % 66 % 64 % 72 % (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Our percentage of proved developed reserves declined from 2003 to 2004 due to the proved undeveloped reserves acquired in our Great Lakes and Pine Mountain acquisitions which added to our future drilling inventory. From 2004 to 2005, our proved developed percentage increased from 64% to 66% as we continued to drill aggressively. The Stroud acquisition in June of 2006 was primarily responsible for the decrease in the proved developed reserve percentage in 2006. The Stroud acquisition significantly increased our Barnett Shale drilling and prospect inventory. In 2007, the percentage of proved developed reserves increased 1% to 64%. The following table sets forth summary information by area with respect to estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2007: PV 10 (a) Reserve Volumes Amount Oil NGL Natural Gas Total (In thousands) % (Mbbls) (Mmcf) (Mmcfe) % Southwest $ 2,942,845 57 % 51,816 737,419 1,048,314 47 % Appalachia 2,128,982 41 % 13,742 1,067,691 1,150,143 52 % Gulf Coast 132,997 2 % 1,102 27,687 34,305 1 % Total $ 5,204,824 100 % 66,660 1,832,797 2,232,762 100 % (a) PV 10 was prepared using prices in effect at the end of 2007, discounted at 10% per annum. Year end PV 10 may be considered a non GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC. We believe that the presentation of PV 10 is relevant and useful to our investors as supplemental disclosure to the standardized measure, or after tax amount, because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves prior to taking into account corporate future income taxes and our current tax structure. While the standardized is dependent on the unique tax situation of each company, PV 10 is based on prices and discount factors that are consistent for all companies. Because of this, PV 10 can be used within the industry and by creditors and securities analysts to evaluate estimated net cash flows from proved reserves on a more comparable basis. The difference between the standardized measure and the PV 10 amount is the discounted estimated future income tax of $1.5 billion at December 31, 2007. At year end 2006, the following independent petroleum consultants reviewed our reserves: DeGolyer and MacNaughton (Southwest and Gulf Coast), H.J. Gruy and Associates, Inc. (Southwest), and Wright and Company, Inc. (Appalachia). These engineers were selected for their geographic expertise and their historical experience in engineering certain properties. At December 31, 2007, these consultants collectively reviewed approximately 86% of our proved reserves. All estimates of oil and gas reserves are subject to uncertainty. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. We did not file any reports during the year ended December 31, 2007 with any federal authority or agency with respect to our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves. 16 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the estimated future net revenues, excluding open hedging contracts, from proved reserves, the present value of those net revenues (PV 10) and the expected benchmark prices and average field prices used in projecting them over the past five years (in millions except prices): December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Future net revenue $ 11,908 $ 6,391 $ 10,429 $ 5,035 $ 2,687 Present value Before income tax 5,205 2,771 4,887 2,396 1,396 After income tax (Standardized Measure) 3,666 2,002 3,384 1,749 1,003 Benchmark prices Oil price (per barrel) $ 95.98 $ 61.05 $ 61.04 $ 43.33 $ 32.52 Gas price (per mcf) $ 6.80 $ 5.64 $ 10.08 $ 6.18 $ 6.19 Wellhead prices Oil price (per barrel) $ 91.88 $ 57.66 $ 57.80 $ 40.44 $ 29.48 Gas price (per mcf) $ 6.44 $ 5.24 $ 9.83 $ 6.05 $ 6.03 Future net revenues represent projected revenues from the sale of proved reserves net of production and development costs (including operating expenses and production taxes). Such calculations, prepared in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities, are based on costs and prices in effect at December 31 of each year, without escalation. There can be no assurance that the proved reserves will be produced within the periods indicated and prices and costs will not remain constant. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating reserves and related information and different reservoir engineers often arrive at different estimates for the same properties. Producing Wells The following table sets forth information relating to productive wells at December 31, 2007. We also own royalty interests in an additional 1,649 wells where we do not own a working interest. If we own both a royalty and a working interest in a well such interests are included in the table below. Wells are classified as crude oil or natural gas according to their predominant production stream. We do not have a significant number of dual completions. Average Total Wells Working Gross Net Interest Natural gas 16,253 11,341 70 % Crude oil 2,832 2,474 87 % Total 19,085 13,815 72 % The day to day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of the operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs or contracts for field personnel and performs other functions. An operator receives reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged by unaffiliated third parties. The charges customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated. Acreage We own interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage. These ownership interests generally take the form of working interests in oil and gas leases that have varying terms. Developed acreage includes leased acreage that is allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production even though shallower or deeper horizons may not have been fully explored. Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas or oil, regardless of whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves. 17 Table of Contents The following table sets forth certain information regarding our developed and undeveloped acreage in which we own a working interest as of December 31, 2007. Acreage related to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests is excluded from this summary: Developed Acres Undeveloped Acres Total Acres Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Alabama 65,617 54,451 65,617 54,451 Louisiana 3,289 2,058 17,454 8,457 20,743 10,515 Michigan 162 162 855 378 1,017 540 Mississippi 3,954 2,167 25,214 7,956 29,168 10,123 New York 187,124 177,871 146,302 128,361 333,426 306,232 Ohio 270,638 254,257 239,569 217,959 510,207 472,216 Oklahoma 160,588 100,855 147,523 79,200 308,111 180,055 Pennsylvania 427,516 388,947 632,448 532,328 1,059,964 921,275 Texas 179,500 146,680 324,180 236,906 503,680 383,586 Virginia 152,300 50,330 166,134 74,393 318,434 124,723 West Virginia 48,468 47,883 107,300 104,300 155,768 152,183 1,433,539 1,171,210 1,872,596 1,444,689 3,306,135 2,615,899 Average working interest 82 % 77 % 79 % Undeveloped Acreage Expirations The table below summarizes by year our undeveloped acreage scheduled to expire in the next five years. Acres % of Total As of December 31, Gross Net Undeveloped 2008 157,342 123,432 8 % 2009 244,817 173,246 11 % 2010 299,460 219,017 14 % 2011 162,742 136,695 9 % 2012 303,922 250,387 16 % Drilling Results The following table summarizes drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. As of December 31, 2007, we were in the process of drilling 131 gross (83 net) wells. 2007 2006 2005 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Development wells Productive 942.0 680.5 992.0 689.7 813.0 573.8 Dry 9.0 7.9 8.0 4.6 10.0 7.7 Exploratory wells Productive 11.0 6.3 12.0 6.9 13.0 8.1 Dry 5.0 3.5 5.0 2.6 5.0 3.9 Total wells Productive 953.0 686.8 1,004.0 696.6 826.0 581.9 Dry 14.0 11.4 13.0 7.2 15.0 11.6 Total 967.0 698.2 1,017.0 703.8 841.0 593.5 Success ratio 99 % 98 % 99 % 99 % 98 % 98 % 18 Table of Contents Title to Properties We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often minimal investigation of record title is made at the time of lease acquisition. Investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include: customary royalty interests; liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes; obligations or duties under applicable laws; development obligations under oil and gas leases; or burdens such as net profit interests. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We have been named as a defendant in a number of legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, such litigation and claims are likely to be resolved without a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity, although an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on the operations of a given interim period or year. See also Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS There were no matters submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of 2007. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol RRC. During 2007, trading volume averaged 1.6 million shares per day. On December 20, 2007, we were selected to be included in the SP 500 index. The following table shows the quarterly high and low sale prices and cash dividends declared as reported on the NYSE composite tape for the past two years. Cash Dividends High Low Declared 2006 First quarter $ 30.52 $ 22.52 $ 0.02 Second quarter 30.29 21.74 0.02 Third quarter 30.37 23.38 0.02 Fourth quarter 31.77 22.80 0.03 2007 First quarter $ 33.80 $ 25.59 $ 0.03 Second quarter 40.50 33.40 0.03 Third quarter 41.87 33.28 0.03 Fourth quarter 51.88 37.17 0.04 Between January 1, 2008 and February 20, 2008, the common stock traded at prices between $43.02 and $64.50 per share. Our senior subordinated notes are not listed on an exchange, but trade over the counter. Holders of Record On February 20, 2008, there were approximately 1,848 holders of record of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Dividends In December 2007, the Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend to $0.04 per common share. The payment of dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and depends on earnings, capital expenditures and various other factors. The bank credit facility and our senior subordinated notes allow for the payment of common and preferred dividends, with certain limitations. The determination of the amount of future dividends, if any, to be declared and paid is at the sole discretion of our board and will depend upon our level of earnings and capital expenditures and other matters that the Board of Directors deems relevant. For more information see information set forth in Item 7 of this report Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We have a repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in 2006 for the repurchase of up to $10.0 million of common stock based on market conditions and opportunities. There were no repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we have $4.7 million remaining under this authorization. Stockholder Return Performance Presentation* The following graph is included in accordance with the SECs executive compensation disclosure rules. This historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock performance. The graph compares the change in the cumulative total return of the common stock, the Dow Jones U.S. Exploration and Production Index and the SP 500 Index for the five years ended December 31, 2007. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in the Companys common stock and each index on December 31, 2002. Comparison of Five Year Cumulative Returns 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Range Resources Corporation $ 100 $ 175 $ 379 $ 732 $ 762 $ 1,427 DJ U.S. Expl. Prod. Index 100 129 182 298 312 445 SP 500 100 126 138 141 161 167 * The performance graph and the information contained in this section is not soliciting material, is being furnished not filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table shows selected financial information for the five years ended December 31, 2007. Significant producing property acquisitions in 2006 and 2004 affect the comparability of year to year financial and operating data. In March 2007, we sold our Gulf of Mexico properties for proceeds of $155.0 million. Accordingly, the financial and statistical data contained in the following discussion reflects the reclassification of our Gulf of Mexico operations to discontinued operations. All weighted average shares and per share data have been adjusted for the three for two stock split effected December 2, 2005. This information should be read in conjunction with Item 7 of this report Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in thousands, except per share data) Balance Sheet Data: Current assets (a) $ 261,814 $ 388,925 $ 207,977 $ 136,336 $ 66,092 Current liabilities (b) 305,433 251,685 321,760 177,162 106,964 Oil and gas properties, net 3,503,808 2,608,088 1,679,593 1,340,077 658,798 Total assets 4,016,508 3,187,674 2,018,985 1,595,406 830,091 Bank debt 303,500 452,000 269,200 423,900 178,200 Subordinated notes 847,158 596,782 346,948 196,656 109,980 Stockholders equity (c) 1,728,022 1,256,161 696,923 566,340 274,066 Weighted average dilutive shares outstanding 149,911 138,711 129,125 97,998 86,775 Cash dividends declared per common share 0.13 0.09 .0599 .0267 .0067 Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided from operating activities $ 642,291 $ 479,875 $ 325,745 $ 209,249 $ 124,680 Net cash used in investing activities 1,020,572 911,659 432,377 624,301 186,838 Net cash provided from financing activities 379,917 429,416 93,000 432,803 61,455 (a) 2007 included deferred tax assets of $26.9 million. 2005 included deferred tax assets of $61.7 million compared to $26.3 million in 2004 and $19.9 million in 2003. 2007 includes a $53.0 million unrealized derivative asset compared to $93.6 million in 2006. (b) 2007 includes unrealized derivative liabilities of $30.5 million compared to $4.6 million in 2006, $160.1 million in 2005, $61.0 million in 2004 and $54.3 million in 2003. (c) Stockholders equity includes other comprehensive income (loss) of ($26.8 million) in 2007 compared to $36.5 million in 2006, ($147.1 million) in 2005, ($43.3 million) in 2004 and ($42.9 million) in 2003. 21 Table of Contents Statement of Operations Data: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in thousands, except per share data) Revenues Oil and gas sales $ 862,537 $ 599,139 $ 495,470 $ 278,903 $ 179,074 Transportation and gathering 2,290 2,422 2,306 2,002 3,248 Gain (loss) on retirement of securities (39 ) 18,526 Derivative fair value (loss) income (7,767 ) 142,395 10,303 614 (1,282 ) Other 5,031 856 1,024 1,588 (865 ) Total revenue 862,091 744,812 509,103 283,068 198,701 Costs and expenses Direct operating 108,741 81,261 57,866 39,419 28,110 Production and ad valorem taxes 42,443 36,415 30,822 19,845 12,059 Exploration 43,345 44,088 29,529 12,619 12,530 General and administrative 68,428 49,886 33,444 20,634 17,818 Deferred compensation plan 28,332 6,873 29,474 19,176 6,559 Interest expense and dividends on trust preferred 77,737 55,849 37,619 22,437 21,507 Depletion, depreciation and amortization 227,328 154,739 114,364 80,628 62,687 Total costs and expenses 596,354 429,111 333,118 214,758 161,270 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and accounting change 265,737 315,701 175,985 68,310 37,431 Income tax provision (benefit) Current 320 1,912 1,071 (245 ) 170 Deferred 98,441 119,840 64,809 25,327 14,125 98,761 121,752 65,880 25,082 14,295 Income from continuing operations 166,976 193,949 110,105 43,228 23,136 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 63,593 (35,247 ) 906 (997 ) 7,788 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 230,569 158,702 111,011 42,231 30,924 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, net of taxes 4,491 Net income 230,569 158,702 111,011 42,231 35,415 Preferred dividends (5,163 ) (803 ) Net income available to common stockholders $ 230,569 $ 158,702 $ 111,011 $ 37,068 $ 34,612 Earnings per common share: Basic income from continuing operations $ 1.16 $ 1.45 $ 0.89 $ 0.41 $ 0.27 income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.44 (0.26 ) (0.01 ) 0.10 cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 0.05 net income $ 1.60 $ 1.19 $ 0.89 $ 0.40 $ 0.42 Diluted income from continuing operations $ 1.11 $ 1.39 $ 0.85 $ 0.39 $ 0.27 income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.43 (0.25 ) 0.01 (0.01 ) 0.09 cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 0.05 net income $ 1.54 $ 1.14 $ 0.86 $ 0.38 $ 0.41 22 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our business and results of operations together with our present financial condition. This section should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Statements in our discussion may be forward looking. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that a number of factors could cause future production, revenues and expenses to differ materially from our expectations. See Disclosures Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Annual Report and Risk Factors in Item 1A for additional discussion of some of these factors and risks. Items Impacting the Comparability to Prior Year Reports In March 2007, we sold our Gulf of Mexico properties for proceeds of $155.0 million. Accordingly, the financial and statistical data contained in the following discussion for all periods presented reflects the reclassification of our Gulf of Mexico operations to discontinued operations. Overview of Our Business We are an independent oil and gas company engaged in the exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, primarily in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. We operate in one segment. We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Our strategy is to increase reserves and production through internally generated drilling projects coupled with complementary acquisitions. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and gas and on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas activities. Our corporate headquarters are in Fort Worth, Texas. Industry Environment We operate entirely within the United States, a mature region for the exploration and production of oil and gas. As a mature region, while new discoveries of oil and gas occur in the United States, the size and frequency of these discoveries is generally declining, while finding and development costs are increasing. We believe that there remain areas of the United States, such as the Appalachian Basin and certain areas in our Southwest and Gulf Coast Areas, which are underexplored or have not been fully explored and developed with the benefit of newly available exploration, production and reserve enhancement technology. Examples of such technology include advanced 3 D seismic processing, hydraulic reservoir fracture stimulation, advances in well logging and analysis, horizontal drilling and completion techniques, secondary and tertiary recovery practices, and automated remote well monitoring and control devices. Another characteristic of a mature region is the historical exit of larger independent producers and major oil companies from such regions. These companies, searching for ever larger new discoveries, have ventured increasingly overseas and offshore, de emphasizing their onshore United States assets. This movement out of mature basins by larger companies has provided acquisition opportunities for companies like ours that maintain well equipped technical teams capable of generating additional value from these assets. In other situations, to increase cash flow without increasing capital spending, larger independent producers and major integrated oil companies have allowed smaller companies the opportunity to explore and develop reserves on their undeveloped acreage through joint ventures and farm in arrangements. We believe the acquisition market for oil and gas properties has become extremely competitive as producers vie for additional production and expanded drilling opportunities. Acquisition values have reached historic highs and we expect these values to remain high in 2008. In addition, we expect drilling and service costs to remain at a high level in 2008 and for lease operating expenses to continue to rise as producers are forced to make operational enhancements to maintain aging fields. Oil and gas is a commodity. The price that we receive for the natural gas we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand for natural gas in the United States has increased dramatically over the last ten years. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, estimates of gas in storage, weather and other seasonal condition, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Market conditions involving over or under supply of natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile and we expect the volatility to continue in the future. A factor impacting the future supply balance is the recent increase in the United States LNG import capacity. Significant LNG capacity 23 Table of Contents increases have been announced which may result in increased price volatility. A substantial or extended decline in oil and gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and gas reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets. Source of Our Revenues We derive our revenues from the sale of oil and gas that is produced from our properties. Revenues are a function of the volume produced, the prevailing market price at the time of sale, quality, BTU content and transportation costs to market. The price of oil and natural gas is the primary factor affecting our revenues. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to downward price fluctuations, we use derivative instruments to hedge future sales prices on a significant portion of our natural gas and oil production. During 2006 and 2005 the use of derivative instruments prevented us from realizing the full benefit of upward price movements and may continue to do so in future periods. Our realized price calculations include the effects of the settlement of derivative contracts that are accounted for as hedges and the settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges. Principal Components of Our Cost Structure Direct Operating Expenses. These are day to day costs incurred to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market together with the daily costs incurred to maintain our producing properties. Such costs also include workovers and repairs to our oil and gas properties. These costs are expected to remain high in 2008 as the demand for these services continues to increase. Direct operating expenses also include stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. These costs are taxes paid on produced oil and gas based on a percentage of market prices (not at hedged prices) or at fixed rates established by federal, state or local taxing authorities. Exploration Expense. Geological and geophysical costs, including payroll and benefits for the geological and geophysical staff, seismic costs, delay rentals and the costs of unsuccessful exploratory or dry holes. Exploration expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. General and Administrative Expense. Overhead, including payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, costs of managing our production and development operations, audit and other professional fees and legal compliance are included in general and administrative expense. General and administrative expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Interest. We typically finance a portion of our working capital requirements and acquisitions with borrowings under our bank credit facility and with our longer term debt securities. As a result, we incur substantial interest expense that is affected by both fluctuations in interest rates and our financing decisions. We will likely continue to incur significant interest expense as we continue to grow. We expect our 2008 capital budget to be funded primarily with internal cash flow and asset sales. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. The systematic expensing of the capitalized costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop natural gas and oil. As a successful efforts company, we capitalize all costs associated with our acquisition and development efforts and all successful exploration efforts, and apportion these costs to each unit of production through depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. This expense includes the systematic, monthly accretion of the future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. This category also includes unproved property impairment and costs associated with lease expirations. Income Taxes. We are subject to state and federal income taxes but are currently not in a tax paying position for regular federal income taxes, primarily due to the current deductibility of intangible drilling costs (IDC). We do pay some state income taxes where our IDC deductions do not exceed our taxable income or where state income taxes are determined on another basis. Currently, substantially all of our federal taxes are deferred; however, at some point, we anticipate using all of our net operating loss carryforwards and we will recognize current income tax expense and continue to recognize current tax expense as long as we are generating taxable income. 24 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income and Operations Overview of 2007 Results During 2007, we achieved the following results: Achieved 22% production growth and 27% reserve growth; Drilled 698 net wells; Continued expansion of drilling inventory and emerging plays; Posted record financial results and continued balance sheet improvements; and Completed acquisitions of properties containing 133 Bcfe of proved reserves. Our 2007 performance reflects another year of successfully executing our strategy of growth through drilling and complementary acquisitions. The business of exploring for, developing, and acquiring oil and gas is highly competitive and capital intensive. As in any commodity business, the costs associated with finding, acquiring, extracting, and financing the operation are critical to profitability and long term value creation for stockholders. Generating meaningful growth while containing costs presents an ongoing challenge. During periods of historically high oil and gas prices, drilling service and operating cost increases are more prevalent due to increased competition for goods and services. We faced other challenges in 2007 including attracting and retaining qualified personnel, consummating and integrating acquisitions, and accessing the capital markets to fund our growth on sufficiently favorable terms. We have continued to expand and improve the technical staff through the hiring of additional experienced professionals. Our inventory of exploration and development prospects continues to be strong, providing new growth opportunities, greater diversification of technical risk and better efficiency. Total revenues increased 16% in 2007 over the same period of 2006. This increase is due to higher production and higher realized oil and gas prices. Our 2007 production growth is due to the continued success of our drilling program and to acquisitions completed in 2006 and 2007. Realized prices were higher by 18% in 2007. As discussed in Item 1A of this report, significant changes in oil and gas prices can have a significant impact on our balance sheet and our results of operations, including the fair value of our derivatives. Oil and Gas Sales, Production and Realized Price Calculations Our oil and gas sales vary from year to year as a result of changes in commodity prices or volumes of production sold. Hedges realized reflect settlements on those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting. Oil and gas sales increased 44% from 2006 due to a 22% increase in production and an 18% increase in realized prices. Oil and gas sales in 2006 increased 21% from 2005 due to an 18% increase in production and a 3% increase in realized prices. The following table illustrates the primary components of oil and gas sales for each of the last three years (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Oil and Gas Sales Oil wellhead $ 226,686 $ 189,516 $ 156,102 Oil hedges realized (23,755 ) (45,265 ) (42,948 ) Total oil revenue $ 202,931 $ 144,251 $ 113,154 Gas wellhead $ 585,538 $ 466,099 $ 461,132 Gas hedges realized 27,916 (47,916 ) (106,404 ) Total gas revenue $ 613,454 $ 418,183 $ 354,728 NGL $ 46,152 $ 36,705 $ 31,891 NGL hedges realized (4,302 ) Total NGL revenue $ 46,152 $ 36,705 $ 27,589 Combined wellhead $ 858,376 $ 692,320 $ 649,126 Combined hedges 4,161 (93,181 ) (153,655 ) Total oil and gas sales $ 862,537 $ 599,139 $ 495,471 25 Table of Contents Our production continues to grow through continued drilling success and additions from acquisitions. For 2007, our production volumes increased 15% in our Appalachia Area, increased 28% in our Southwest Area and declined 17% in our Gulf Coast Area. For 2006, our production volumes increased 10% in our Appalachia Area, increased 29% in our Southwest Area and declined 36% in our Gulf Coast Area. Our production for each of the last three years is set forth in the following table: 2007 2006 2005 Production Crude oil (bbls) 3,359,668 3,039,150 2,929,013 NGLs (bbls) 1,114,730 1,091,785 1,011,692 Natural gas (mcf) 89,594,626 70,712,770 57,608,816 Total (mcfe) (a) 116,441,014 95,498,380 81,253,046 Average daily production Crude oil (bbls) 9,205 8,326 8,025 NGLs (bbls) 3,054 2,991 2,772 Natural gas (mcf) 245,465 193,734 157,832 Total (mcfe) (a) 319,016 261,639 222,611 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) received for oil and gas during 2007 was $8.02 per mcfe compared to $6.80 per mcfe in 2006 and $6.13 per mcfe in 2005. Our average realized price calculation (including all derivative settlements) includes all cash settlements for derivatives, whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Average price calculations for each of the last three years is shown below: 2007 2006 2005 Average Prices Average sales prices (wellhead): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 67.47 $ 62.36 $ 53.30 NGLs (per bbl) $ 41.40 $ 33.62 $ 31.52 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 6.54 $ 6.59 $ 8.00 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 7.37 $ 7.25 $ 7.99 Average realized prices (including derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 60.40 $ 47.46 $ 38.63 NGLs (per bbl) $ 41.40 $ 33.62 $ 27.27 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 6.85 $ 5.91 $ 6.16 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 7.41 $ 6.27 $ 6.10 Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 60.16 $ 47.46 $ 38.63 NGLs (per bbl) $ 41.40 $ 33.62 $ 27.27 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 7.66 $ 6.62 $ 6.21 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 8.02 $ 6.80 $ 6.13 Average NYMEX prices (b): Oil (per bbl) $ 72.34 $ 66.22 $ 56.56 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 6.92 $ 7.26 $ 8.55 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. (b) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. 26 Table of Contents Derivative fair value income (loss) decreased to a loss of $7.8 million in 2007 compared to a gain of $142.4 million in 2006 and a gain of $10.3 million in 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005, certain of our gas hedges no longer qualified for hedge accounting due to the effect of gas price volatility on the correlation between realized prices and hedge reference prices. Also, as a result of the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, the portion of our derivatives which were designated to our Gulf of Mexico production was marked to market resulting in fair value income of $209,000. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we began marking a portion of our oil hedges designated as Permian Basin production to market due to the anticipated sale of a portion of our Permian properties resulting in derivative fair value loss of $14.7 million. The loss of hedge accounting treatment creates volatility in our revenues as gains and losses from non hedge derivatives are included in total revenues and are not included in our balance sheet in accumulated other compensation loss. As commodity prices increase or decrease such changes will have an opposite effect on the mark to market value of our derivatives. Because oil prices increased dramatically in 2007, our derivatives became comparatively less valuable. However, we expect these losses will be offset by higher wellhead revenues in the future. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, we have also entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting purposes and are marked to market. Hedge ineffectiveness included in this category is associated with our hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The following table presents information about the components of derivative fair value income (loss) for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2007 (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Hedge ineffectiveness realized $ 968 $ $ unrealized (a) (820 ) 5,965 (3,471 ) Change in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for (78,769 ) 86,491 10,868 hedge accounting (a) Realized gain on settlements gas (b) 71,098 49,939 2,906 Realized loss on settlements oil (b) (244 ) Derivative fair value (loss) income $ (7,767 ) $ 142,395 $ 10,303 (a) These amounts are unrealized and are not included in average sales price calculations. (b) These amounts represent realized gains and losses on settled derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting which before settlement have been recognized in the unrealized mark to market component of derivative fair value income (loss). These settlements are included in average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements). Other revenue increased in 2007 to a gain of $5.0 million compared to a gain of $856,000 in 2006 and a gain of $1.0 million in 2005. The 2007 period includes income from equity method investments of $974,000 and other miscellaneous income. The 2006 period includes income from equity method investments of $548,000. The 2005 period includes income of $514,000 from Independent Producer Finance, one of our businesses that no longer operates. Comparison of 2007 and 2006 Expenses Our unit costs have increased as we continue to grow. We believe some of our expense fluctuations should be analyzed on a unit of production, or per mcfe basis. The following table presents information about certain of our expenses on a per mcfe basis for 2007 and 2006: Operating expenses (per mcfe) 2007 2006 Change % Change Direct operating expense $ 0.93 $ 0.85 $ 0.08 9 % Production and ad valorem tax expense 0.36 0.38 (0.02 ) 5 % General and administrative expense 0.59 0.52 0.07 13 % Interest expense 0.67 0.58 0.09 15 % Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense 1.95 1.62 0.33 20 % Direct operating expense for 2007 increased $27.5 million, or 33.8%, to $108.7 million due to higher oilfield service costs, higher volumes and the integration of our recent acquisitions. Our operating expenses are increasing as we add new wells and maintain production from our existing properties. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses were $0.93 and increased $0.08 from 2006 with the increase consisting primarily of higher water disposal costs ($0.02 per mcfe), higher well services and equipment costs ($0.04 per mcfe), higher workover costs ($0.02 per mcfe) and a $0.01 per mcfe increase in stock based compensation. The following table summarizes direct operating expenses per mcfe for 2007 and 2006: 27 Table of Contents % 2007 2006 Change Change Lease operating expense $ 0.85 $ 0.80 $ 0.05 6 % Workovers 0.06 0.04 0.02 50 % Stock based compensation 0.02 0.01 0.01 100 % Total direct operating expenses $ 0.93 $ 0.85 $ 0.08 9 % Production and ad valorem taxes are paid based on market prices and not hedged prices. For 2007, these taxes increased $6.0 million, or 17%, from the same period of the prior year. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes decreased from $0.38 in 2006 to $0.36 in 2007 with lower ad valorem taxes per mcfe due to lower property tax rates in Texas as a result of the new margin tax. General and administrative expense for 2007 increased $18.5 million, or 37%, primarily due to higher salaries and benefits of $9.2 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher office rent and general office expense of $2.3 million ($0.01 per mcfe) and higher stock based compensation of $4.0 million ($0.01 per mcfe). The stock based compensation expense represents amortization of restricted stock grants and stock option/SARs expense under SFAS No. 123(R). On a per mcfe basis, general and administration expense increased from $0.52 in 2006 to $0.59 in 2007. The following table summarizes general and administrative expenses per mcfe for 2007 and 2006: % 2007 2006 Change Change General and administrative $ 0.43 $ 0.37 $ 0.06 16 % Stock based compensation 0.16 0.15 0.01 7 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 0.59 $ 0.52 $ 0.07 13 % Interest expense for 2007 increased $21.9 million, or 39%, to $77.7 million with higher average debt balances and the refinancing of certain debt from short term floating to longer term fixed rates. In September 2007, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 which added $4.8 million of interest costs in 2007. In May 2006, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016 which increased interest expense by $9.1 million in 2007. The proceeds from these issuances were used to retire shorter term lower rate bank debt. In 2007, the average debt outstanding on the bank credit facility was $417.6 million with an average interest rate of 6.4% compared to an average debt outstanding in 2006 of $347.8 million, with an average interest rates of 6.4%. Depletion, depreciation and amortization (DDA) for 2007 increased $72.6 million, or 47%, to $227.3 million, due to higher production and higher depletion rates. Depletion rates increased 16%, or $0.24 per mcfe, due to increased drilling costs and the mix of our production. DDA increased from $1.62 per mcfe in 2006 to $1.95 per mcfe in 2007. For 2008, based on our current reserve base, we expect our DDA rate to average approximately $2.10 per mcfe. The twelve months ended 2007 also includes higher unproved property impairment of $3.0 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher acreage expiration expense of $3.4 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher accretion expense related to asset retirement obligations of $2.3 million ($0.01 per mcfe) and higher depreciation expense of $3.3 million ($0.01 per mcfe). In the fourth quarter of 2006, we lowered our salvage value estimates on our Appalachia wells which increased DDA expense by $4.6 million. Our operating expenses also include other expenses that generally do not trend with production. These expenses include stock based compensation, exploration expense and deferred compensation plan expense. In 2007, stock based compensation of $24.0 million is a component of direct operating expense ($1.8 million), exploration expense ($3.5 million) and general and administrative expense ($18.2 million). In 2006, stock based compensation of $19.1 million is a component of direct operating expense ($1.4 million), exploration expense ($3.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($14.3 million). In 2007 and 2006, this expense represents the amortization of restricted stock grants, stock options and SARs as they become vested. 28 Table of Contents Exploration expense for 2007 decreased $743,000, or 2%, to $43.3 million due to lower seismic costs ($4.3 million) somewhat offset by higher personnel costs. The following table details our exploration related expenses (in thousands): % 2007 2006 Change Change Dry hole expense $ 15,149 $ 15,084 $ 65 Seismic 10,933 15,277 (4,344 ) 28 % Personnel expense 8,924 6,917 2,007 29 % Stock based compensation expense 3,473 3,079 394 13 % Delay rentals and other 4,866 3,731 1,135 30 % Total exploration expense $ 43,345 $ 44,088 $ (743 ) 2 % Deferred compensation plan expense for 2007 increased to $28.3 million, or 312%, from $6.9 million in 2006. This non cash expense relates to the increase or decrease in value of our common stock and other investments held in our deferred compensation plans. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded adjustments that decreased deferred compensation plan expense by $12.4 million. Such adjustments were the result of an incorrect practice of adjusting our deferred compensation liability for market value changes in unvested shares held in our deferred compensation plan. In addition, interest and dividends related to the marketable securities held in the deferred compensation plan were inappropriately recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Of the $12.4 million decrease in deferred compensation expense, $7.1 million is related to periods prior to 2007 and $5.3 million is related to the first three quarters of 2007. Our common stock price increased from $26.34 per share at the end of 2005 to $27.46 per share at the end of 2006 to $51.36 per share at the end of 2007. Income tax expense for 2007 decreased $23.0 million, or 19%, to $98.8 million due to a 16% decrease in income from continuing operations. Our effective tax rate was 37% for 2007 compared to 39% for 2006. The twelve months ended December 31, 2007 includes a non recurring $3.0 million tax benefit related to an increase in the Texas Margin Tax credit carryover. This benefit is related to a change in the Texas law allowing companies to realize tax attributes carrying forward from the previously applicable Texas Franchise tax to the new Texas Margin tax. The twelve months ended December 31, 2006 includes a $2.8 million tax expense for changes in state tax rates. We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 37% for 2008. Given our available net operating loss carryover, we do not expect to pay significant federal income taxes. We received a refund of $299,000 for state income taxes in 2007. Discontinued operations includes the operating results related to our Gulf of Mexico properties and Austin Chalk properties that we sold in the first quarter of 2007. See also Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Comparison of 2006 to 2005 Expenses Our unit costs have increased as we continue to grow. We believe some of our expense fluctuations should be analyzed on a unit of production, or per mcfe basis. The following table presents information about certain of our operating expenses on a per mcfe basis for 2006 and 2005: % Operating expenses (per mcfe) 2006 2005 Change Change Direct operating expense $ 0.85 $ 0.71 $ 0.14 20 % Production and ad valorem tax expense 0.38 0.38 General and administration expense 0.52 0.41 0.11 27 % Interest expense 0.58 0.46 0.12 26 % Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense 1.62 1.41 0.21 15 % Direct operating expense for 2006 increased $23.4 million to $81.3 million due to higher oilfield service costs, higher volumes and the integration of our recent acquisitions. Our operating expenses are increasing as we add new wells and maintain production from our existing properties. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses were $0.85 and increased 20% or $0.14 from 2005 consisting of higher utilities ($0.01 per mcfe), higher water disposal and equipment costs ($0.06 per mcfe) and higher pumper expenses ($0.01 per mcfe). The following table summarizes direct operating expenses per mcfe for 2006 and 2005: 29 Table of Contents % 2006 2005 Change Change Lease operating $ 0.80 $ 0.66 $ 0.14 21 % Workovers 0.04 0.04 % Stock based compensation 0.01 0.01 % Total direct operating expenses $ 0.85 $ 0.71 $ 0.14 20 % Production and ad valorem taxes are paid based on market prices and not hedged prices. For 2006, these taxes increased $5.6 million, or 18%, from the same period of the prior year. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes remained the same at $0.38. General and administrative expense for 2006 increased $16.4 million, or 49%, to 49.9 million, from 2005 due primarily to higher salaries and benefits of $6.0 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher office rent and general office expenses of $1.0 million ($0.01 per mcfe) and higher stock based compensation expense of $9.4 million ($0.09 per mcfe). The stock based compensation expense represents amortization of restricted stock grants in 2006 and 2005, expense related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006 and the mark to market of SARs granted to employees in 2005. On a per mcfe basis, general and administration expense increased 27% from $0.41 in 2005 to $0.52 in 2006. The following table summarizes general and administrative expenses per mcfe for 2006 and 2005: % 2006 2005 Change Change General and administrative expense $ 0.37 $ 0.35 $ 0.02 6 % Stock based compensation 0.15 0.06 0.09 150 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 0.52 $ 0.41 $ 0.11 27 % Interest expense for 2006 increased $18.2 million, or 48%, to $55.8 million with higher average interest rates, higher average debt balances and the refinancing of certain debt from short term floating to longer term fixed rates. In May 2006, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes which added $9.7 million of interest costs. The proceeds from this issuance were used to retire shorter term bank debt. Average debt outstanding on the bank credit facility was $347.8 million with an average interest rate of 6.4% compared to an average debt outstanding in 2005 of $314.8 million with an average interest rate of 4.5%. Depletion, depreciation and amortization for 2006 increased $40.4 million, or 35%, to $154.7 million due to higher production and higher depletion rates. DDA increased from $1.41 per mcfe in 2005 to $1.62 per mcfe in 2006. This increase is primarily related to our Stroud acquisition, increasing drilling costs and the mix of our production. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we lowered our salvage value estimates on our Appalachia wells which increased DDA expense by $4.6 million. Operating expenses also include stock based compensation, exploration expense and deferred compensation plan expenses that generally do not trend with production. In 2006, stock based compensation expense is a component of direct operating expense ($1.4 million), exploration expense ($3.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($14.3 million) and a $320,000 reduction of gas transportation revenues for a total of $19.1 million. In 2005, stock based compensation is a component of direct operating expense ($480,000), exploration expense ($1.2 million) and general and administrative expense ($4.9 million) and a reduction of $117,000 of gas transportation revenues for a total of $6.7 million. This expense represents the amortization of restricted stock grants in 2006 and 2005, expense related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006 and in 2005, the mark to market of SARs granted to employees. Exploration expense increased 49% to $44.1 million due to higher seismic costs ($2.0 million), higher dry hole costs ($8.5 million) and higher personnel costs. The following table details our exploration related expenses (in thousands): % 2006 2005 Change Change Dry hole expense $ 15,084 $ 6,560 $ 8,524 130 % Seismic 15,277 13,292 1,985 15 % Personnel expense 6,917 5,872 1,045 18 % Stock based compensation expense 3,079 1,250 1,829 146 % Other 3,731 2,555 1,176 46 % Total exploration expense $ 44,088 $ 29,529 $ 14,559 49 % 30 Table of Contents Deferred compensation plan expense for 2006 decreased $22.6 million, or 77%, to $6.9 million. This non cash expense relates to the increase or decrease in value of our common stock and other investments held in our deferred compensation plans. Our common stock price increased from $13.64 per share at the end of 2004 to $26.34 per share at the end of 2005 to $27.46 per share at the end of 2006. Tax expense for 2006 increased $55.9 million, or 85%, to $121.8 million due to a 79% increase in income from continuing operations. Our effective tax rate was 39% for 2006 compared to 37% in 2005. Given our available net operating loss carryforward, we do not expect to pay significant federal income taxes. The twelve months ended December 31, 2006 includes a $2.8 million adjustment for changes in state tax rates. We paid $1.8 million of state taxes in 2006. Discontinued operations for 2006 and 2005 includes the results of operations for our Gulf of Mexico assets which were sold in the first quarter of 2007. Discontinued operations for 2006 also includes the operating results and impairment losses on the Austin Chalk properties which were acquired as part of our 2006 Stroud acquisition. Due to significant price declines after the purchase of these properties and volumes produced since the acquisition, we recognized an impairment of $74.9 million. These properties were also sold in the first quarter of 2007. See also Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Our main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, a committed bank credit facility, asset sales and access to both the debt and equity capital markets. During 2007, our net cash provided from continuing operations of $632.1 million, proceeds from our April 2007 common stock offering of $280.4 million, proceeds from our September 2007 note offering of $250.0 million and proceeds from the sale of assets of $234.3 million were used to fund $1.2 billion of capital expenditures (including acquisitions and equity investments). At December 31, 2007 we had $4.0 million in cash and total assets of $4.0 billion. Our debt to capitalization ratio was 40.0% at December 31, 2007 compared to 45.5% at December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, our total capitalization was as follows (in thousands): 2007 2006 Bank debt $ 303,500 $ 452,000 Senior subordinated notes 847,158 596,782 Total debt 1,150,658 1,048,782 Stockholders equity 1,728,022 1,256,161 Total capitalization $ 2,878,680 $ 2,304,943 Debt to capitalization ratio 40 % 46 % Long term debt at December 31, 2007 totaled $1.2 billion, including $303.5 million of bank credit facility debt and $847.2 million of senior subordinated notes. Our available borrowing capacity at December 31, 2007 was $596.5 million. Cash is required to fund capital expenditures necessary to offset inherent declines in production and reserves which is typical in the oil and gas industry. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on capital resources available and the success of finding or acquiring additional reserves. We believe that net cash generated from operating activities and unused committed borrowing capacity under the bank credit facility combined with our oil and gas price hedges currently in place will be adequate to satisfy near term financial obligations and liquidity needs. However, long term cash flows are subject to a number of variables including the level of production and prices as well as various economic conditions that have historically affected the oil and gas business. A material drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production and reserves would reduce our ability to fund capital expenditures, reduce debt, meet financial obligations and remain profitable. We operate in an environment with numerous financial and operating risks, including, but not limited to, the inherent risks of the search for, development and production of oil and gas, the ability to buy properties and sell production at prices which provide an attractive return and the highly competitive nature of the industry. Our ability to expand our reserve base is, in part, dependent on obtaining sufficient capital through internal cash flow, bank borrowings or the issuance of debt or equity securities. There can be no assurance that internal cash flow and other capital sources will provide sufficient funds to maintain capital expenditures that we believe are necessary to offset inherent declines in production and proved reserves. Bank Debt We maintain a $900.0 million revolving credit facility, which we refer to as our bank debt or our bank credit facility. The bank credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets and matures on October 25, 2012. Availability under the bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base set by the lenders semi annually with an option to set more often in certain circumstances. The borrowing base is dependent on a number of factors, primarily the lenders assessment of future cash flows. Redeterminations of the borrowing base require approval of 75% of the lenders; increases require unanimous approval. 31 Table of Contents At February 20, 2008, the bank credit facility had a $1.5 billion borrowing base and a $900.0 million facility amount. Credit availability is equal to the lesser of the facility amount or the borrowing base resulting in credit availability of $300.5 million on February 20, 2008. The facility amount can be increased to the borrowing base with twenty days notice. Our bank debt and our subordinated notes impose limitations on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments (as defined under the debt agreements for our bank debt and our subordinated notes). Under the bank credit facility, common and preferred dividends are permitted. The terms of each of our subordinated notes limit restricted payments (including dividends) to the greater of $20.0 million or a formula based on earnings and equity issuances since the original issuances of the notes. The 7.5% senior subordinated notes due in 2016 and 2017 also allow for any cash proceeds received within twelve months from the sale of oil and gas properties purchased in an acquisition using stock as consideration to be added to the restricted payment basket. At December 31, 2007, approximately $922.4 million was available under the restricted payment baskets for each of the 7.375% senior subordinated notes, 6.375% senior subordinated notes and the $7.5% senior subordinated notes due in 2017. There was $1.0 billion available under the restricted payment basket for the 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016. The bank credit facility provides for a restricted payment basket of $20.0 million plus 66 2/3% of net cash proceeds from common stock issuances and 50% of net income. Approximately $735.2 million was available under the bank credit facility restricted payment basket as of December 31, 2007. The debt agreements contain customary covenants relating to debt incurrence, working capital, dividends and financial ratios. We were in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2007. Cash Flow Our principal sources of cash are operating cash flow, bank borrowings, asset sales and at times, issuance of debt and equity securities. Our operating cash flow is highly dependent on oil and gas prices. As of December 31, 2007, we had entered into hedging agreements covering 102.1 Bcfe for 2008 and 61.3 Bcfe for 2009. The $808.4 million of cash capital expenditures for 2007, excluding acquisitions, was funded with internal cash flow and proceeds from asset sales. The $1.1 billion capital budget for 2008, which excludes acquisitions, is expected to increase production and to expand the reserve base. Based on current projections, oil and gas futures prices and our hedge position, the 2008 capital program is expected to be funded, primarily with internal cash flow and asset sales. Net cash provided from continuing operations in 2007 was $632.1 million, compared to $441.5 million in 2006 and $288.6 million in 2005. In 2007, cash flow from continuing operations increased due to higher production volumes and higher realized prices partially offset by increasing operating costs. In 2006, cash flow from operations increased due to higher production volumes and prices partially offset by increasing operating, exploration and interest expenses. In 2005, cash flow from operations increased due to higher volumes and prices partially offset by increasing operating costs. Net cash used in investing activities in 2007 was $1.0 billion, compared to $911.7 million in 2006 and $432.4 million in 2005. In 2007, we spent $782.4 million in additions to oil and gas properties, $336.5 million on acquisitions and $94.7 on equity method investments. Also in 2007, we recognized proceeds of $234.3 million from the sale of assets. The 2006 period included $487.2 million in additions to oil and gas properties and $360.1 million of acquisitions. The 2005 period included $266.4 million in additions to oil and gas properties and $153.6 million of acquisitions. Net cash provided from financing activities in 2007 was $379.9 million, compared to $429.4 million in 2006 and $93.0 million in 2005. Historically, sources of financing have been primarily bank borrowings and capital raised through equity and debt offerings. During 2007, we received proceeds of $250.0 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 and proceeds of $280.4 million from a common stock offering. During 2006, we received proceeds of $249.5 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016. During 2005, the outstanding balance under our bank credit facility declined $154.7 million primarily due to the proceeds received from the 6.375% senior subordinated notes due 2017 being applied to our bank debt. During 2005, we also received proceeds of $109.2 million from a common stock offering. Capital Requirements Our primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, repayment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and payment of dividends. During 2007, $820.0 million of capital was expended on drilling projects. Also in 2007, $339.0 million was expended on acquisitions primarily to purchase additional interests in producing properties and unproved acreage. The capital program, excluding acquisitions, was funded by net cash flow from operations and proceeds from asset sales. The 2008 capital budget of $1.1 billion, excluding acquisitions, is expected to be funded primarily by cash flow from operations and asset sales. Development and exploration activities are highly discretionary, and, for the foreseeable future, we expect such activities to be maintained at levels equal to internal cash flow and asset sales. To the extent capital requirements exceed internal cash flow and proceeds from asset sales, debt or equity may be issued to fund these requirements. We currently believe we have sufficient liquidity and cash flow to meet our obligations for the next twelve months; however, a drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production or reserves could adversely affect our 32 Table of Contents ability to fund capital expenditures and meet our financial obligations. Also, our obligations may change due to acquisitions, divestitures and continued growth. We may issue additional shares of stock, subordinated notes or other debt securities to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, extend maturities or to repay debt. Cash Dividend Payments The amount of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and primarily depends on earnings and capital expenditures. In 2007, we paid $19.1 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.03 per share in the third, second and first quarters). In 2006, we paid $12.2 million in dividends to our common stockholders ($0.03 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.02 per share in the third, second and first quarters). In 2005, we paid $7.6 million in dividends to our common stockholders ($0.0133 per share in the second and third quarters and $0.02 per share in the fourth quarter). Also in 2005, we paid $2.2 million in preferred stock dividends. Future Commitments In addition to our capital expenditure program, we are committed to making cash payments in the future on two types of contracts: note agreements and operating leases. As of December 31, 2007, we do not have any capital leases nor have we entered into any material long term contracts for equipment. As of December 31, 2007, we do not have any significant off balance sheet debt or other such unrecorded obligations and we have not guaranteed the debt of any other party. The table below provides estimates of the timing of future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place at December 31, 2007. In addition to the contractual obligations listed on the table below, our balance sheet at December 31, 2007 reflects accrued interest payable on our bank debt of $739,000 which is payable in the first quarter of 2008. We expect to make annual interest payments of $14.8 million per year on our 7.375% senior subordinated notes, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016, $9.6 million per year on our 6.375% senior subordinated notes and $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017. The following summarizes our contractual financial obligations at December 31, 2007 and their future maturities. We expect to fund these contractual obligations with cash generated from operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility and proceeds from asset sales. Payment due by period 2009 and 2011 and 2008 2010 2012 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Bank debt due 2012 $ $ $ 303,500 (a) $ $ 303,500 7.375% senior subordinated notes due 2013 200,000 200,000 6.375% senior subordinated notes due 2015 150,000 150,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016 250,000 250,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 250,000 250,000 Operating leases 9,657 19,221 12,801 8,568 50,247 Seismic agreements 500 300 800 Derivative obligations (b) 30,457 45,819 76,276 Asset retirement obligation liability 1,903 9,816 2,538 61,051 75,308 Total contractual obligations (c) $ 42,517 $ 75,156 $ 318,839 $ 919,619 $ 1,356,131 (a) Due at termination date of our bank credit facility. We expect to renew our bank credit facility, but there is no assurance that can be accomplished. Interest paid on our bank credit facility would be approximately $28.0 million each year assuming no change in the interest rate or outstanding balance. (b) Derivative obligations represent net open derivative contracts valued as of December 31, 2007. While such payments will be funded by higher prices received from the sale of our production, production receipts may be received after our payments to counterparties which can result in borrowings under our bank credit facility. (c) This table excludes the liability for the deferred compensation plans since these obligations will be funded with existing plan assets. Hedging Oil and Gas Prices We enter into derivative agreements to reduce the impact of oil and gas price volatility. At December 31, 2007, swaps were in place covering 71.3 Bcf of gas at prices averaging $8.82 per mcf. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas at weighted average floor and cap prices of $8.07 to $9.73 and 6.2 million barrels of oil at weighted average floor and cap prices of $61.54 to $75.72. The derivative fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized or payable on termination, based on a comparison of the contract price and a reference price, generally NYMEX, approximated a pretax loss of $22.3 million at December 31, 2007. The contracts expire monthly through December 2009. Settled transaction gains and 33 Table of Contents losses for derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are determined monthly and are included as increases or decreases on oil and gas sales in the period the hedged production is sold. Oil and gas sales included realized hedging gains of $4.2 million in 2007 compared to losses of $93.2 million in 2006 and losses of $153.7 million in 2005. Unrealized effective gains and losses on derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are recorded at an estimate of fair value based on a comparison of the contract price and a reference price, generally NYMEX, on our consolidated balance sheet as accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity. At December 31, 2007, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Average Hedge Price Natural Gas 2008 Swaps 155,000 Mmbtu/day $8.97 2008 Collars 70,000 Mmbtu/day $8.01 $10.83 2009 Swaps 40,000 Mmbtu/day $8.24 2009 Collars 80,000 Mmbtu/day $8.12 $8.76 Crude Oil 2008 Collars 9,000 bbl/day $59.34 $75.48 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $64.01 $76.00 Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are effective as economic hedges of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method the contracts are carried at their fair value on our consolidated balance sheet under the captions Unrealized derivative gains and Unrealized derivative losses. We recognize all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts in our consolidated statement of operations in the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). As of the fourth quarter of 2005, certain of our gas derivatives no longer qualified for hedge accounting and are marked to market. Also, as a result of the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, a portion of derivatives which were designated to our Gulf Coast production was marked to market. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we began marking a portion of our oil hedges designated as Permian production to market due to the anticipated sale of a portion of our Permian properties. Derivatives that no longer qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method described above. As of December 31, 2007, hedges on 64.0 Bcfe no longer qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting. During the third and fourth quarter of 2007, in addition to the swaps and collars above, we entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify as hedges for hedge accounting purposes and are marked to market. The price we receive for our production can be less than NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net unrealized pre tax gain of $145,000 at December 31, 2007. Interest Rates At December 31, 2007, we had $1.2 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $850.0 million bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $303.5 million bears interest at floating rates, which averaged 6.2% at year end 2007. The 30 day LIBOR rate on December 31, 2007 was 4.6%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 would cost us approximately $3.0 million in additional annual interest. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently utilize any off balance sheet arrangements to enhance our liquidity or capital resource position, or for any other purpose. Inflation and Changes in Prices Our revenues, the value of our assets and our ability to obtain bank loans or additional capital on attractive terms have been and will continue to be affected by changes in oil and gas prices and the costs to produce our reserves. Oil and gas prices are subject to significant fluctuations that are beyond our ability to control or predict. Although certain of our costs and expenses are affected by general inflation, inflation does not normally have a significant effect on our business. In a trend that began in 2004 and accelerated through 2007, commodity prices for oil and gas increased significantly. The higher prices have 34 Table of Contents led to increased activity in the industry and, consequently, rising costs. These cost trends have put pressure not only on our operating costs but also on our capital costs. We expect these costs to remain high for 2008. The following table indicates the average oil and gas prices received over the last five years and quarterly for 2007, 2006 and 2005. Average price calculations exclude all derivative settlements whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Oil is converted to natural gas equivalent at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Average Sales Prices (Wellhead) Average NYMEX Prices (a) Equivalent Oil Natural Gas (Per Mcf Oil Natural Gas (Per bbl) mcf) (Per mcfe) (Per bbl) (Per mcf) Annual 2007 $ 67.47 $ 6.54 $ 7.37 $ 72.34 $ 6.92 2006 62.36 6.59 7.25 66.22 7.26 2005 53.30 8.00 7.99 56.56 8.55 2004 39.20 5.80 5.79 41.41 6.09 2003 28.23 5.03 4.85 31.04 5.44 Quarterly 2007 First $ 56.01 $ 6.41 $ 6.88 $ 58.27 $ 6.96 Second 62.20 6.95 7.57 65.03 7.56 Third 70.51 5.97 7.01 75.38 6.13 Fourth 82.12 6.80 7.94 90.68 7.03 2006 First $ 59.74 $ 8.33 $ 8.41 $ 63.48 $ 9.07 Second 65.36 6.28 7.17 70.70 6.82 Third 64.53 6.12 7.00 70.48 6.53 Fourth 59.80 5.91 6.58 60.21 6.62 2005 First $ 47.01 $ 5.98 $ 6.25 $ 49.84 $ 6.32 Second 48.72 6.41 6.65 53.17 6.80 Third 59.94 7.88 8.16 63.19 8.25 Fourth 56.38 11.30 10.54 60.02 12.85 (a) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. Managements Discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable; however, actual results may differ. Certain accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (a) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the level of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to changes; and (b) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Oil and Gas Properties Proved reserves are defined by the SEC as those volumes of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed reserves are volumes expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Although our engineers are knowledgeable of and follow the guidelines 35 Table of Contents for reserves established by the SEC, the estimation of reserves requires engineers to make a significant number of assumptions based on professional judgment. Reserve estimates are updated at least annually and consider recent production levels and other technical information. Estimated reserves are often subject to future revisions, which could be substantial, based on the availability of additional information, including: reservoir performance, new geological and geophysical data, additional drilling, technological advancements, price and cost changes and other economic factors. Changes in oil and gas prices can lead to a decision to start up or shut in production, which can lead to revisions to reserve quantities. Reserve revisions in turn cause adjustments in the depletion rates used by us. We cannot predict what reserve revisions may be required in future periods. Reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering who reports directly to our Chief Operating Officer. To further ensure the reliability of our reserve estimates, we engage independent petroleum consultants to review our estimates of proved reserves. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. The following table sets forth a summary of the percent of reserves which were reviewed by independent petroleum consultants for each of the years ended 2007, 2006 and 2005. Audited (a) 2007 2006 2005 86% 87% 84% (a) Audited reserves are those reserves estimated by our employees and reviewed by an independent petroleum consultant. We use the successful efforts method to account for exploration and development expenditures. Unsuccessful exploration drilling costs are expensed and can have a significant effect on reported operating results. Successful exploration drilling costs and all development costs are capitalized and systematically charged to expense using the units of production method based on proved developed oil and gas reserves as estimated by our engineers and reviewed by independent engineers. Costs incurred for exploratory wells that find reserves that cannot yet be classified as proved are capitalized on our balance sheet if (a) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and (b) we are making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Proven property leasehold costs are charged to expense using the units of production method based on total proved reserves. Properties are assessed for impairment as circumstances warrant (at least annually) and impairments to value are charged to expense. The successful efforts method inherently relies upon the estimation of proved reserves, which includes proved developed and proved undeveloped volumes. We adhere to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies, for recognizing any impairment of capitalized costs to unproved properties. The greatest portion of these costs generally relate to the acquisition of leasehold costs. The costs are capitalized and periodically evaluated (at least quarterly) as to recoverability, based on changes brought about by economic factors and potential shifts in business strategy employed by management. We consider a combination of time, geologic and engineering factors to evaluate the need for impairment of these costs. Unproved properties had a net book value of $271.4 million in 2007 compared to $226.2 million in 2006 and $28.5 million in 2005. Depletion rates are determined based on reserve quantity estimates and the capitalized costs of producing properties. As the estimated reserves are adjusted, the depletion expense for a property will change, assuming no change in production volumes or the capitalized costs. Estimated reserves are used as the basis for calculating the expected future cash flows from a property, which are used to determine whether that property may be impaired. Reserves are also used to estimate the supplemental disclosure of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil and gas producing activities and reserve quantities in Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements. Changes in the estimated reserves are considered in estimates for accounting purposes and are reflected on a prospective basis. We monitor our long lived assets recorded in property, plant and equipment in our consolidated balance sheet to ensure they are fairly presented. We must evaluate our properties for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset could exceed its fair value. A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these evaluations since the results are based on estimated future events. Such events include a projection of future oil and natural gas sales prices, an estimate of the ultimate amount of recoverable oil and gas reserves that will be produced from a field, the timing of future production, future production costs, future abandonment costs, and future inflation. The need to test a property for impairment can be based on several factors, including a significant reduction in sales prices for oil and or gas, unfavorable adjustment to reserves, physical damage to production equipment and facilities, a change in costs, or other changes to contracts, environmental regulations or tax laws. All of these factors must be considered when testing a propertys carrying value for impairment. We cannot predict whether impairment charges may be required in the future. 36 Table of Contents We are required to develop estimates of fair value to allocate purchase prices paid to acquire businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price paid to acquire a business is allocated to its assets and liabilities based on the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. We use all available information to make these fair value determinations. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for information on these acquisitions. Oil and Gas Derivatives We enter into derivative contracts to mitigate our exposure to commodity price risk associated with future oil and natural gas production. These contracts have historically consisted of options, in the form of collars, and fixed price swaps. Under SFAS No. 133, every derivative instrument is required to be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or a liability measured at its fair value. If the derivative does not qualify as a hedge or is not designated as a hedge, the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized currently in earnings. If the derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (equity) to the extent that the hedge is effective and in the income statement to the extent it is ineffective. Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are effective as economic hedges of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method, the contracts are carried at their fair value on our consolidated balance sheet under the captions Unrealized derivative assets and Unrealized derivative liabilities. We recognize all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts on our consolidated statement of operations under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). As of the fourth quarter of 2005, certain of our gas derivatives no longer qualified for hedge accounting due to the effect of volatility of gas prices on the correlation between realized prices and hedge reference prices. Also, as a result of the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, the portion of derivatives which were designated to our Gulf Coast production no longer qualified for hedge accounting resulting in derivative fair value income of $209,000. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we began marking a portion of our oil hedges designated as Permian production to market due to the anticipated sale of a portion of our Permian properties resulting in derivative fair value loss of $14.7 million. These derivatives that no longer qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133 are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method described above. During the third and fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify as hedges for hedge accounting and are also marked to market. The price we receive for our gas production can be less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location, or basis, relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreement that effectively fix our basis adjustments. While there is a risk that the financial benefit of rising oil and gas prices may not be captured, we believe the benefits of stable and predictable cash flow are more important. Among these benefits are a more efficient utilization of existing personnel and planning for future staff additions, the flexibility to enter into long term projects requiring substantial committed capital, smoother and more efficient execution of our ongoing development drilling and production enhancement programs, more consistent returns on invested capital, and better access to bank and other credit markets. Asset Retirement Obligations We have significant obligations to remove tangible equipment and restore land at the end of oil and gas production operations. Removal and restoration obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells. Estimating the future asset removal costs is difficult and requires us to make estimates and judgments because most of the removal obligations are many years in the future and contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what constitutes removal. Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are regulatory, political, environmental, safety and public relations considerations. Inherent in the fair value calculation are numerous assumptions and judgments including the ultimate retirement costs, inflation factors, credit adjusted discount rates, timing of retirement, and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and political environments. To the extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present value of the existing asset retirement obligation, (ARO), a corresponding adjustment is made to the oil and gas property balance. In addition, increases in the discounted ARO liability resulting from the passage of time are reflected as accretion expense, a component of depletion, depreciation and amortization in our consolidated statement of operations. Due to the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, our ARO liability decreased $20.0 million. 37 Table of Contents Deferred Taxes We are subject to income and other taxes in all areas in which we operate. When recording income tax expense, certain estimates are required because income tax returns are generally filed many months after the close of a calendar year, tax returns are subject to audit which can take years to complete and future events often impact the timing of when income tax expenses and benefits are recognized. We have deferred tax assets relating to tax operating loss carryforwards and other deductible differences. We routinely evaluate deferred tax assets to determine the likelihood of realization. A valuation allowance is recognized on deferred tax assets when we believe that certain of these assets are not likely to be realized. In determining deferred tax liabilities, accounting rules require OCI to be considered, even though such income or loss has not yet been earned. At year end 2006, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $468.6 million, with $21.3 million of deferred tax liabilities related to unrealized deferred hedging gains included in OCI. At year end 2007, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $563.9 million, with $16.3 million of deferred tax assets related to unrealized hedging losses included in OCI. We may be challenged by taxing authorities over the amount and or timing of recognition of revenues and deductions in our various income tax returns. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for all taxes, gains or losses could occur in the future due to changes in estimates or resolution of outstanding tax matters. Contingent Liabilities A provision for legal, environmental and other contingent matters is charged to expense when the loss is probable and the cost or range of cost can be reasonably estimated. Judgment is often required to determine when expenses should be recorded for legal, environmental and contingent matters. In addition, we often must estimate the amount of such losses. In many cases, our judgment is based on the input of our legal advisors and on the interpretation of laws and regulations, which can be interpreted differently by regulators and or the courts. We monitor known and potential legal, environmental and other contingent matters and make our best estimate of when to record losses for these matters based on available information. Although we continue to monitor all contingencies closely, particularly our outstanding litigation, we currently have no material accruals for contingent liabilities. Revenue Recognition Oil, gas and natural gas liquids are recognized when the products are sold and delivery to the purchaser has occurred. We use the sales method the account for gas imbalances, recognizing revenue based on gas delivered rather than our working interest share of gas produced. Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measure at fair value. It requires that unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected be recorded in net income. The statement also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. For us, SFAS No. 159 will be effective January 1, 2008, and retrospective application is not permitted. Should we elect to apply the fair value option to any eligible items that exist at January 1, 2008, the effect of the first remeasurement to fair value would be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We will adopt SFAS No. 159 as of January 1, 2008 and the impact of the adoption will result in a reclassification of a $2.0 million pre tax loss related to our investment securities from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement. This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements but may require some entities to change their measurement practices. For us, SFAS No. 157 will be effective January 1, 2008. We have not yet determined whether SFAS No. 157 will have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. However, we believe we will be required to provide additional disclosures as part of future financial statements, beginning with the first quarter of 2008. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) replaces SFAS No. 141. The statement retains the purchase method of accounting for acquisitions, but requires a number of changes, including changes in the way assets and liabilities are recognized in the purchase accounting. It changes the recognition of 38 Table of Contents assets acquired and liabilities assumed arising from contingencies, requires the capitalization of in process research and development at fair value, and requires the expensing of acquisition related costs as incurred. The statement will apply prospectively to business combinations occurring in our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2009. We are currently evaluating provisions of this statement. ITEM 7A. QUANTITIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil and gas prices and interest rates. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposure. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. All accounts are US dollar denominated. Market Risk Our major market risk is exposure to oil and gas prices. Realized prices are primarily driven by worldwide prices for oil and spot market prices for North American gas production. Oil and gas prices have been volatile and unpredictable for many years. Commodity Price Risk We periodically enter into derivative arrangements with respect to our oil and gas production. These arrangements are intended to reduce the impact of oil and gas price fluctuations. Certain of our derivatives are swaps where we receive a fixed price for our production and pay market prices to the counterparty. Our derivatives program also includes collars which assume a minimum floor price and a predetermined ceiling price. Historically, we applied hedge accounting to derivatives utilized to manage price risk associated with our oil and gas production. Accordingly, we recorded change in the fair value of our swap and collar contracts, including changes associated with time value, under the caption, Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and into oil and gas sales when the forecasted sale of production occurs. Any hedge ineffectiveness associated with contracts qualifying for and designated as a cash flow hedge is reported currently each period under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss) in our consolidated statement of operations. Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are effective as economic hedges of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method, the contracts are carried at their fair value on our consolidated balance sheet under the captions Unrealized derivative gains and Unrealized derivative losses. We recognize all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts in our consolidated statement of operations under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). Generally, derivative losses occur when market prices increase, which are offset by gains on the underlying physical commodity transaction. Conversely, derivative gains occur when market prices decrease, which are offset by losses on the underlying commodity transaction. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had oil and gas swaps in place covering 71.3 Bcf of gas. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas and 6.2 million barrels of oil. These contracts expire monthly through December 2009. The fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized upon immediate liquidation as of December 31, 2007, approximated a net unrealized pre tax loss of $22.3 million. At December 31, 2007, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Average Hedge Price Fair Market Value (in thousands) Natural Gas 2008 Swaps 155,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.97 $ 64,982 2008 Collars 55,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.01 $10.83 $ 19,288 2009 Swaps 40,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.24 $ (3,812 ) 2009 Collars 80,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.12 $8.76 $ (3,070 ) Crude Oil 2008 Collars 9,000 bbl/day $ 59.34 $75.48 $ (59,624 ) 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $ 64.01 $76.00 $ (40,085 ) 39 Table of Contents Other Commodity Risk We are impacted by basis risk, caused by factors that affect the relationship between commodity futures prices reflected in derivative commodity instruments and the cash market price of the underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices experienced in local markets. If commodity price changes in one region are not reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased basis risk. In addition to the collars and swaps above, during the third and fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting purpose and are marked to market. The price we receive for our gas production can be less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net realized pre tax gain of $145,000 at December 31, 2007. In 2007, a 10% reduction in oil and gas prices, excluding amounts fixed through hedging transactions, would have reduced revenue by $85.4 million. If oil and gas futures prices at December 31, 2007 had declined by 10%, the unrealized hedging gain at that date would have increased $137.9 million. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2007, we had $1.2 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $850.0 million bears interest at a fixed rate averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $303.5 million bears interest at floating rates, which averaged 6.2% on that date. On December 31, 2007, the 30 day LIBOR rate was 4.6%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 would cost us approximately $3.0 million in additional annual interest rates. The fair value of our subordinated debt is based on quoted market prices. The following table presents information on these fair values (in thousands): Carrying Fair Value Value Fixed rate debt: Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 $ 197,602 $ 204,000 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 150,000 147,750 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 6.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 249,556 254,375 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 250,000 251,250 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Proximity to local markets, availability of competitive fuels and overall supply and demand are factors affecting the prices for which our production can be sold. Market volatility due to international political developments, overall energy supply and demand, fluctuating weather conditions, economic growth rates and other factors in the United States and worldwide have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on energy prices. We incur gathering and transportation expenses to move our natural gas and crude oil from the wellhead and tanks to purchaser specified delivery points. These expenses vary based on volume, distance shipped and the fee charged by the third party transporters. In the Southwestern and Gulf Coast Areas, our natural gas and oil production are transported primarily through third party trucks, gathering systems and pipelines. Transportation space on these gathering systems and pipelines is occasionally limited. In Appalachia, we own approximately 5,100 miles of gas gathering pipelines which transport a majority 5 Table of Contents of our Appalachian gas production as well as third party gas to transmission lines and directly to end users and interstate pipelines. For additional information, see Risk Factors Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities, many of which are owned by others, in Item 1A of this report. Governmental Regulation Our operations are substantially affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations. In particular, oil and gas production and related operations are, or have been, subject to price controls, taxes and numerous other laws and regulations. All of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate producing crude oil and natural gas properties have statutory provisions regulating the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas, including provisions related to permits for the drilling of wells, bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, and the abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells which may be drilled in an area, and the unitization or pooling of crude oil and natural gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individuals wells. In August 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005). Among other matters, the EPAct 2005 amends the Natural Gas Act (NGA), to make it unlawful for any entity, including otherwise non jurisdictional producers such as Range, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), in contravention of rules prescribed by the FERC. On January 20, 2006, the FERC issued rules implementing this provision. The rules make it unlawful in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1,000,000 per day per violation. The new anti manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non jurisdictional sale or gathering, but does apply to activities or otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction. It therefore reflects a significant expansion of FERCs enforcement authority. Range does not anticipate it will be affected any differently than other producers of natural gas. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, such laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil and gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the FERC, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. Environmental and Occupational Matters Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Numerous governmental departments such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issue regulations to implement and enforce such laws, which are often difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, production and transporting through pipelines, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier and other protected areas, require some form of remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen pits and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. In addition, these laws and regulations may restrict the rate of production. The regulatory burden imposed on the oil and gas industry by these laws and regulations increases the cost of doing business, affecting growth and profitability. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal or clean up requirements could adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as the industry in general. We believe we are in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with environmental requirements, there is no assurance that this will continue. We did not have any material capital or other non recurring expenditures in connection with complying with environmental laws or environmental remediation matters in 2007, nor do we anticipate that such expenditures will be material in 2008. 6 Table of Contents The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, (CERCLA), known as the Superfund law, and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include owners or operators of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damages allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants into the environment pursuant to environmental statutes, common law or both. Although petroleum, including crude oil and natural gas, is not a hazardous substance under CERCLA, at least two courts have ruled that certain wastes associated with the production of crude oil may be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA and that such wastes may therefore give rise to liability under CERCLA. While we generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances, we have not received notification that we may be potentially responsible for cleanup costs under CERCLA. Beyond CERCLA, state laws regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes, and periodically new state legislative initiatives are proposed that could have a significant impact on us. We also may incur liability under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended (RCRA), which imposes requirements related to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. While there exists an exclusion from the definition of hazardous wastes for drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy, these wastes may be regulated by the EPA or state agencies as non hazardous solid waste. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils, can be regulated as hazardous wastes. Although the costs of managing wastes classified as hazardous waste may be significant, we do not expect to experience more burdensome costs than similarly situated companies. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Although we used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes was not under our control. These properties and the materials disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other oil and gas wastes, into federal and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or the state. These laws provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for any unauthorized discharges of oil and other hazardous substances in reportable quantities and may impose substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and maintain approvals or permits for the discharge of wastewater or storm water and are required to develop and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans, also referred to as SPCC plans, in connection with on site storage of greater than threshold quantities of oil. We are currently undertaking a review of recently acquired oil and gas properties to determine the need for new or updated SPCC plans and, where necessary, we will be developing or upgrading such plans, the costs of which are not expected to be substantial. The Clean Air Act, as amended, and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including compressor stations. These laws and any implementing regulations may require us to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent air permit requirements, or use specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. While we may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next few years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits addressing other air emission related issues, we do not believe that such requirements will have a material adverse affect on our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those of the oil and gas industry in general. For instance, recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is actively considering climate change related legislation to restrict greenhouse gas emissions. One bill recently approved by the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, known as the Lieberman Warner Climate Security Act or S. 2191, would require a 70% reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from sources within the United States between 2012 and 2050. A vote on 7 Table of Contents this bill by the full Senate is expected to occur before mid year 2008. In addition, at least 17 states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Also, as a result of the U.S. Supreme Courts decision on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, the EPA may be required to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources (e.g., cars and trucks) even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. The EPA has indicated that it will issue a rulemaking notice to address greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles and automobile fuels, although the date for the issuance of this notice has not been finalized. The Courts holding in Massachusetts that greenhouse gases fall under the federal Clean Air Acts definition of air pollutant may also result in future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources under certain Clean Air Act programs. New legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas where we conduct business could adversely affect our operations and demand for our products. We are also subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) and comparable state laws that regulate the protection of the health and safety of employees. In addition, OSHAs hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with the OSHA requirements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business Volatility of oil and natural gas prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources and could hamper our ability to produce oil and gas economically Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in prices would adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. The oil and natural gas industry is typically cyclical, and prices for oil and natural gas have been highly volatile. Historically, the industry has experienced severe downturns characterized by oversupply and or weak demand. Higher oil and natural gas prices have contributed to our positive earnings over the last several years. However, long term supply and demand for oil and natural gas is uncertain and subject to a myriad of factors such as: the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; the price and availability of alternative fuels; weather conditions; the level of consumer demand; the price of foreign imports; world wide economic conditions; political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and domestic and foreign governmental regulations. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices from current levels could adversely affect our revenues, net income, cash flow and proved reserves. Significant price decreases could have a material adverse effect on our operations and limit our ability to fund capital expenditures. Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves and production. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks To manage our exposure to price risk, we, from time to time, enter into hedging arrangements, utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a significant portion of our future production. The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices rise above the price established by the hedge. 8 Table of Contents In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: our production is less than expected; the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices or the relationship between the hedged price index and the oil and gas sales price. Information concerning our reserves and future net reserve estimates is uncertain There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved reserves are by their nature uncertain. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could be material. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of oil and natural gas reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated: the amount and timing of oil and natural gas production; the revenues and costs associated with that production; and the amount and timing of future development expenditures. The discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves included in this Report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based generally on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and natural gas industry in general. If oil and natural gas prices decrease or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to record write downs of our oil and natural gas properties In the past, we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our oil and natural gas properties, and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional write downs in the future. This could occur when oil and natural gas prices are low, or if we have downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of operating or development costs, deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where the cost to redrill or repair does not justify the expense. Accounting rules require that the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties be periodically reviewed for possible impairment. Impairment is recognized when the book value of a proven property is greater than the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that property and on acreage when conditions indicate the carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required to write down the carrying value of a property based on oil and natural gas prices at the time of the impairment review, as well as a continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data, economics and other factors. While an impairment charge reflects our long term ability to recover an investment, it does not impact cash or cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce our reported earnings and increases our leverage ratios. Our business is subject to operating hazards and environmental regulations that could result in substantial losses or liabilities that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies Oil and natural gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic natural gas and other environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of: 9 Table of Contents injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution or other environmental damage; clean up responsibilities; regulatory investigations and penalties; or suspension of operations. As we drill to deeper horizons and in more geologically complex areas, we could experience a greater increase in operating and financial risks due to inherent higher reservoir pressures and unknown downhole risk exposures. As we continue to drill deeper, the number of rigs capable of drilling to such depths will be fewer and we may experience greater competition from other operators. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Recently, we have experienced substantial increases in premiums especially in areas affected by the hurricanes and tropical storms. Insurers have imposed revised limits affecting how much the insurers will pay on actual storm claims plus the cost to re drill wells where substantial damage has been incurred. Insurers are also requiring us to retain larger deductibles and reducing the scope of what insurable losses will include. Even with the increase in future insurance premiums, coverage will be reduced, requiring us to bear a greater potential risk if our oil and gas properties are damaged. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example at December 31, 2007, approximately 74% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the remaining 26% subject to variable interest rates. Recent unfavorable disclosures concerning the sub prime mortgage market may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our business and marketing oil and natural gas. Competitors include multinational oil companies, independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or weather industry downturns more easily than we can. The demand for field services and their ability to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill and produce our oil and natural gas properties Due to current industry demands, well service providers and related equipment and personnel are in short supply. This is causing escalating prices, the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures will likely increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use of equipment and inexperienced personnel. In some cases, we are operating in new areas where services and infrastructure do not exist or in urban areas which are more restrictive. The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive regulation The oil and natural gas industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United States by local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous departments and agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on participants in the oil and natural gas industry. Compliance with such rules and regulations often increases our cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases our profitability. 10 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws, regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property damage or injuries to employees and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and even may be caused by previous owners of property we own or lease. Any past, present or future failure by us to completely comply with environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could cause us to incur substantial fines, sanctions or liabilities from cleanup costs or other damages. Incurrence of those costs or damages could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses. Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It generally is not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily, a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed. For example, in 1997, we consummated a large acquisition that proved extremely disappointing. Production from the acquired properties fell more rapidly than anticipated and further development results were below the results we had originally projected. The poor production performance of these properties resulted in material downward reserve revisions. There is no assurance that our recent and or future acquisition activity will not result in similarly disappointing results. In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or regulatory approvals. Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with recent and future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel, none of which is currently subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise. Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce Because the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire and produce additional oil and natural gas reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future oil and natural gas production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost. Drilling is a high risk activity The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce 11 Table of Contents enough oil and natural gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of other factors, including: high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor, or other services; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; reductions in oil and natural gas prices; limitations in the market for oil and natural gas; adverse weather conditions; facility or equipment malfunctions; equipment failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures; casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipelines ruptures, and discharges of toxic gases; lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations; loss of drilling fluid circulation; pressure or irregularities in formations; fires; natural disasters; blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; and uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete The oil and natural gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by others The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The unavailability of or lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas. 12 Table of Contents The disruption of third party facilities due to maintenance and or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital resources estimated to range from $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion per year over the next three years, depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing operations will also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue additional acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase both to complete such acquisitions and to explore and develop any newly acquired properties. The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations; a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage; our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the general economy; breach the numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our existing credit agreements; our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future. Despite our current levels of indebtedness we still may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further increase the risks described above. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. We exist in a litigious environment Any constituent could bring suit or allege a violation of an existing contract. This action could delay when operations can actually commence or could cause a halt to production until such alleged violations are resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in defending our rights, planned operations could be delayed which would impact our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities. Our financial statements are complex Due to accounting rules and the nature of our business, our financial statements continue to be complex, particularly with reference to hedging, asset retirement obligations, equity awards, deferred taxes and the accounting for our deferred compensation plans. We expect such complexity to continue and possibly increase. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued Since 1998, we have exchanged 31.9 million shares of common stock for debt and convertible securities. The exchanges were made based on the relative market value of the common stock and the debt and convertible securities at the time of the exchange. Also in 2004 and 2005, we sold 33.8 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2006, we issued 6.5 million shares as part of the Stroud acquisition. In 2007, we sold 8.1 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. While the exchanges have reduced interest expense, preferred dividends and future repayment obligations, the larger number of common shares outstanding had a dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is limited by our bank credit facility and our senior subordinated note agreements. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock, additional subordinated notes or other securities or debt convertible into common stock, to extend maturities or fund capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders. Dividend limitations Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are imposed under our bank credit facility and under our senior subordinated note agreements. These limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends independent of our dividend policy. Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2007, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $12.34 per share to a high of $51.88 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: changes in oil and natural gas prices; variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; changes in market valuations of comparable companies; additions or departures of key personnel; or future sales of our stock. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The table below summarizes certain data for our core operating areas for the year ended December 31, 2007. All Gulf of Mexico operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations. Average Daily Total Percentage of Production Total Percentage Proved Total (mcfe Production of Total Reserves Proved Area per day) (mcfe) Production (Mmcfe) Reserves Southwest 194,060 70,832,032 61 % 1,048,314 47 % Appalachia 118,383 43,209,899 37 % 1,150,143 52 % Gulf Coast 6,573 2,399,084 2 % 34,305 1 % 319,016 116,441,015 100 % 2,232,762 100 % 14 Table of Contents We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments; therefore, segment reporting is not applicable to us. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Southwest Area The Southwest Area conducts drilling, production and field operations in the Barnett Shale of North Central Texas, the Permian Basin of West Texas and eastern New Mexico and the East Texas Basin as well as in the Texas Panhandle and the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma. In the Southwest Area, we own 2,928 net producing wells, 96% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 77%. We have approximately 802,000 gross (536,000 net) acres under lease. Total proved reserves increased 273.4 Bcfe, or 35%, at December 31, 2007 when compared to year end 2006. Production was more than offset by property purchases (30.2 Bcfe), drilling additions (293.5 Bcfe) and a favorable reserve revision. Annual production increased 28% over 2006. During 2007, the region spent $506.0 million to drill 290.0 (256.4 net) development wells, of which 282.0 (249.5 net) were productive and 6.0 (3.3 net) exploratory wells, of which 4.0 (2.8 net) were productive. During the year, the region achieved a 97% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2007, the Southwest Area had a development inventory of 397 proven drilling locations and 367 proven recompletions. During the year, the Southwest Area drilled 76 proven locations and added new locations of 188. Development projects include recompletions, infill drilling and to a lesser extent, installation of secondary recovery projects. These activities also include increasing reserves and production through cost control, upgrading lifting equipment, improving gathering systems and surface facilities and performing restimulations and refracturing operations. Appalachia Area Our properties in this area are located in the Appalachian Basin in the northeastern United States principally in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, West Virginia and Virginia. The reserves principally produce from the Pennsylvanian (coalbed formation), Upper Devonian, Medina, Clinton, Queenston, Big Lime, Marcellus Shale, Niagaran Reef, Knox, Huntersville Chert, Oriskany and Trenton Black River formations at depths ranging from 2,500 to 12,500 feet. Generally, after initial flush production, most of these properties are characterized by gradual decline rates, typically producing for 10 to 35 years. We own 10,800 net producing wells, 59% of which we operate and 5,100 miles of gas gathering lines. Our average working interest is 71%. We have approximately 2.5 million gross (2.1 million net) acres under lease which includes 407,800 acres where we also own a royalty interest. Reserves at December 31, 2007 increased 235.1 Bcfe, or 26%, from 2006 due to drilling additions (177.4 Bcfe) and property purchases (102.8 Bcfe) which were partially offset by production. Annual production increased 15% over 2006. During 2007, the region spent $278.1 million to drill 654.0 (427.7 net) development wells, of which 653.0 (426.7 net) were productive and 9 (5.5 net) exploratory wells, of which 7.0 (3.5 net) were productive. During the year, the region achieved approximately a 99% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2007, the Appalachia Area had an inventory of 3,600 proven drilling locations and 394 proven recompletions. During the year, the Appalachia Area drilled 321 proven locations and added 755 new locations. Gulf Coast Area The Gulf Coast properties are located onshore in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. Our major fields produce from Yegua formations at depths of 12,000 to 14,000 feet in the Upper Texas Gulf Coast, the Upper Oligocene in South Louisiana at depths of 10,000 to 12,000 feet and the Sligo and Hosston formations at depths of 15,000 to 16,500 feet in the Oakvale field in Mississippi. We have approximately 126,000 gross (83,000 net) acres under lease. We own 43 net producing wells in this Area, 98% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 57%. In the first quarter of 2007, we sold all of our offshore properties. Reserves decreased 33.9 Bcfe, or 50%, from 2006 with property sales (37.1 Bcfe), production and an unfavorable reserve revision partially offset by drilling additions (13.3 Bcfe). On an annual basis, production decreased 17% from 2006. During 2007, the region spent $34.8 million to drill 7.0 (4.3 net) development wells, of which all were productive and 1.0 (1.0 net) exploratory well that was not productive. During the year, the Area had a 81% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2007, the Gulf Coast Area had an inventory of 4 proven drilling locations and 16 proven recompletions. 15 Table of Contents Proved Reserves The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past five years: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Natural gas (Mmcf) Developed 1,144,709 875,395 724,876 580,006 344,187 Undeveloped 688,088 560,583 400,534 366,422 142,217 Total 1,832,797 1,435,978 1,125,410 946,428 486,404 Oil and NGLs (Mbbls) Developed 47,015 37,750 33,029 27,715 24,912 Undeveloped 19,645 15,957 13,863 10,451 8,111 Total 66,660 53,707 46,892 38,166 33,023 Total (Mmcfe) (a) 2,232,762 1,758,226 1,406,762 1,175,425 684,541 % Developed 64 % 63 % 66 % 64 % 72 % (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Our percentage of proved developed reserves declined from 2003 to 2004 due to the proved undeveloped reserves acquired in our Great Lakes and Pine Mountain acquisitions which added to our future drilling inventory. From 2004 to 2005, our proved developed percentage increased from 64% to 66% as we continued to drill aggressively. The Stroud acquisition in June of 2006 was primarily responsible for the decrease in the proved developed reserve percentage in 2006. The Stroud acquisition significantly increased our Barnett Shale drilling and prospect inventory. In 2007, the percentage of proved developed reserves increased 1% to 64%. The following table sets forth summary information by area with respect to estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2007: PV 10 (a) Reserve Volumes Amount Oil NGL Natural Gas Total (In thousands) % (Mbbls) (Mmcf) (Mmcfe) % Southwest $ 2,942,845 57 % 51,816 737,419 1,048,314 47 % Appalachia 2,128,982 41 % 13,742 1,067,691 1,150,143 52 % Gulf Coast 132,997 2 % 1,102 27,687 34,305 1 % Total $ 5,204,824 100 % 66,660 1,832,797 2,232,762 100 % (a) PV 10 was prepared using prices in effect at the end of 2007, discounted at 10% per annum. Year end PV 10 may be considered a non GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC. We believe that the presentation of PV 10 is relevant and useful to our investors as supplemental disclosure to the standardized measure, or after tax amount, because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves prior to taking into account corporate future income taxes and our current tax structure. While the standardized is dependent on the unique tax situation of each company, PV 10 is based on prices and discount factors that are consistent for all companies. Because of this, PV 10 can be used within the industry and by creditors and securities analysts to evaluate estimated net cash flows from proved reserves on a more comparable basis. The difference between the standardized measure and the PV 10 amount is the discounted estimated future income tax of $1.5 billion at December 31, 2007. At year end 2006, the following independent petroleum consultants reviewed our reserves: DeGolyer and MacNaughton (Southwest and Gulf Coast), H.J. Gruy and Associates, Inc. (Southwest), and Wright and Company, Inc. (Appalachia). These engineers were selected for their geographic expertise and their historical experience in engineering certain properties. At December 31, 2007, these consultants collectively reviewed approximately 86% of our proved reserves. All estimates of oil and gas reserves are subject to uncertainty. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. We did not file any reports during the year ended December 31, 2007 with any federal authority or agency with respect to our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves. 16 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the estimated future net revenues, excluding open hedging contracts, from proved reserves, the present value of those net revenues (PV 10) and the expected benchmark prices and average field prices used in projecting them over the past five years (in millions except prices): December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Future net revenue $ 11,908 $ 6,391 $ 10,429 $ 5,035 $ 2,687 Present value Before income tax 5,205 2,771 4,887 2,396 1,396 After income tax (Standardized Measure) 3,666 2,002 3,384 1,749 1,003 Benchmark prices Oil price (per barrel) $ 95.98 $ 61.05 $ 61.04 $ 43.33 $ 32.52 Gas price (per mcf) $ 6.80 $ 5.64 $ 10.08 $ 6.18 $ 6.19 Wellhead prices Oil price (per barrel) $ 91.88 $ 57.66 $ 57.80 $ 40.44 $ 29.48 Gas price (per mcf) $ 6.44 $ 5.24 $ 9.83 $ 6.05 $ 6.03 Future net revenues represent projected revenues from the sale of proved reserves net of production and development costs (including operating expenses and production taxes). Such calculations, prepared in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities, are based on costs and prices in effect at December 31 of each year, without escalation. There can be no assurance that the proved reserves will be produced within the periods indicated and prices and costs will not remain constant. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating reserves and related information and different reservoir engineers often arrive at different estimates for the same properties. Producing Wells The following table sets forth information relating to productive wells at December 31, 2007. We also own royalty interests in an additional 1,649 wells where we do not own a working interest. If we own both a royalty and a working interest in a well such interests are included in the table below. Wells are classified as crude oil or natural gas according to their predominant production stream. We do not have a significant number of dual completions. Average Total Wells Working Gross Net Interest Natural gas 16,253 11,341 70 % Crude oil 2,832 2,474 87 % Total 19,085 13,815 72 % The day to day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of the operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs or contracts for field personnel and performs other functions. An operator receives reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged by unaffiliated third parties. The charges customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated. Acreage We own interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage. These ownership interests generally take the form of working interests in oil and gas leases that have varying terms. Developed acreage includes leased acreage that is allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production even though shallower or deeper horizons may not have been fully explored. Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas or oil, regardless of whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves. 17 Table of Contents The following table sets forth certain information regarding our developed and undeveloped acreage in which we own a working interest as of December 31, 2007. Acreage related to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests is excluded from this summary: Developed Acres Undeveloped Acres Total Acres Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Alabama 65,617 54,451 65,617 54,451 Louisiana 3,289 2,058 17,454 8,457 20,743 10,515 Michigan 162 162 855 378 1,017 540 Mississippi 3,954 2,167 25,214 7,956 29,168 10,123 New York 187,124 177,871 146,302 128,361 333,426 306,232 Ohio 270,638 254,257 239,569 217,959 510,207 472,216 Oklahoma 160,588 100,855 147,523 79,200 308,111 180,055 Pennsylvania 427,516 388,947 632,448 532,328 1,059,964 921,275 Texas 179,500 146,680 324,180 236,906 503,680 383,586 Virginia 152,300 50,330 166,134 74,393 318,434 124,723 West Virginia 48,468 47,883 107,300 104,300 155,768 152,183 1,433,539 1,171,210 1,872,596 1,444,689 3,306,135 2,615,899 Average working interest 82 % 77 % 79 % Undeveloped Acreage Expirations The table below summarizes by year our undeveloped acreage scheduled to expire in the next five years. Acres % of Total As of December 31, Gross Net Undeveloped 2008 157,342 123,432 8 % 2009 244,817 173,246 11 % 2010 299,460 219,017 14 % 2011 162,742 136,695 9 % 2012 303,922 250,387 16 % Drilling Results The following table summarizes drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. As of December 31, 2007, we were in the process of drilling 131 gross (83 net) wells. 2007 2006 2005 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Development wells Productive 942.0 680.5 992.0 689.7 813.0 573.8 Dry 9.0 7.9 8.0 4.6 10.0 7.7 Exploratory wells Productive 11.0 6.3 12.0 6.9 13.0 8.1 Dry 5.0 3.5 5.0 2.6 5.0 3.9 Total wells Productive 953.0 686.8 1,004.0 696.6 826.0 581.9 Dry 14.0 11.4 13.0 7.2 15.0 11.6 Total 967.0 698.2 1,017.0 703.8 841.0 593.5 Success ratio 99 % 98 % 99 % 99 % 98 % 98 % 18 Table of Contents Title to Properties We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often minimal investigation of record title is made at the time of lease acquisition. Investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include: customary royalty interests; liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes; obligations or duties under applicable laws; development obligations under oil and gas leases; or burdens such as net profit interests. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We have been named as a defendant in a number of legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, such litigation and claims are likely to be resolved without a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity, although an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on the operations of a given interim period or year. See also Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS There were no matters submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of 2007. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol RRC. During 2007, trading volume averaged 1.6 million shares per day. On December 20, 2007, we were selected to be included in the SP 500 index. The following table shows the quarterly high and low sale prices and cash dividends declared as reported on the NYSE composite tape for the past two years. Cash Dividends High Low Declared 2006 First quarter $ 30.52 $ 22.52 $ 0.02 Second quarter 30.29 21.74 0.02 Third quarter 30.37 23.38 0.02 Fourth quarter 31.77 22.80 0.03 2007 First quarter $ 33.80 $ 25.59 $ 0.03 Second quarter 40.50 33.40 0.03 Third quarter 41.87 33.28 0.03 Fourth quarter 51.88 37.17 0.04 Between January 1, 2008 and February 20, 2008, the common stock traded at prices between $43.02 and $64.50 per share. Our senior subordinated notes are not listed on an exchange, but trade over the counter. Holders of Record On February 20, 2008, there were approximately 1,848 holders of record of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Dividends In December 2007, the Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend to $0.04 per common share. The payment of dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and depends on earnings, capital expenditures and various other factors. The bank credit facility and our senior subordinated notes allow for the payment of common and preferred dividends, with certain limitations. The determination of the amount of future dividends, if any, to be declared and paid is at the sole discretion of our board and will depend upon our level of earnings and capital expenditures and other matters that the Board of Directors deems relevant. For more information see information set forth in Item 7 of this report Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We have a repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in 2006 for the repurchase of up to $10.0 million of common stock based on market conditions and opportunities. There were no repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we have $4.7 million remaining under this authorization. Stockholder Return Performance Presentation* The following graph is included in accordance with the SECs executive compensation disclosure rules. This historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock performance. The graph compares the change in the cumulative total return of the common stock, the Dow Jones U.S. Exploration and Production Index and the SP 500 Index for the five years ended December 31, 2007. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in the Companys common stock and each index on December 31, 2002. Comparison of Five Year Cumulative Returns 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Range Resources Corporation $ 100 $ 175 $ 379 $ 732 $ 762 $ 1,427 DJ U.S. Expl. Prod. Index 100 129 182 298 312 445 SP 500 100 126 138 141 161 167 * The performance graph and the information contained in this section is not soliciting material, is being furnished not filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table shows selected financial information for the five years ended December 31, 2007. Significant producing property acquisitions in 2006 and 2004 affect the comparability of year to year financial and operating data. In March 2007, we sold our Gulf of Mexico properties for proceeds of $155.0 million. Accordingly, the financial and statistical data contained in the following discussion reflects the reclassification of our Gulf of Mexico operations to discontinued operations. All weighted average shares and per share data have been adjusted for the three for two stock split effected December 2, 2005. This information should be read in conjunction with Item 7 of this report Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in thousands, except per share data) Balance Sheet Data: Current assets (a) $ 261,814 $ 388,925 $ 207,977 $ 136,336 $ 66,092 Current liabilities (b) 305,433 251,685 321,760 177,162 106,964 Oil and gas properties, net 3,503,808 2,608,088 1,679,593 1,340,077 658,798 Total assets 4,016,508 3,187,674 2,018,985 1,595,406 830,091 Bank debt 303,500 452,000 269,200 423,900 178,200 Subordinated notes 847,158 596,782 346,948 196,656 109,980 Stockholders equity (c) 1,728,022 1,256,161 696,923 566,340 274,066 Weighted average dilutive shares outstanding 149,911 138,711 129,125 97,998 86,775 Cash dividends declared per common share 0.13 0.09 .0599 .0267 .0067 Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided from operating activities $ 642,291 $ 479,875 $ 325,745 $ 209,249 $ 124,680 Net cash used in investing activities 1,020,572 911,659 432,377 624,301 186,838 Net cash provided from financing activities 379,917 429,416 93,000 432,803 61,455 (a) 2007 included deferred tax assets of $26.9 million. 2005 included deferred tax assets of $61.7 million compared to $26.3 million in 2004 and $19.9 million in 2003. 2007 includes a $53.0 million unrealized derivative asset compared to $93.6 million in 2006. (b) 2007 includes unrealized derivative liabilities of $30.5 million compared to $4.6 million in 2006, $160.1 million in 2005, $61.0 million in 2004 and $54.3 million in 2003. (c) Stockholders equity includes other comprehensive income (loss) of ($26.8 million) in 2007 compared to $36.5 million in 2006, ($147.1 million) in 2005, ($43.3 million) in 2004 and ($42.9 million) in 2003. 21 Table of Contents Statement of Operations Data: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in thousands, except per share data) Revenues Oil and gas sales $ 862,537 $ 599,139 $ 495,470 $ 278,903 $ 179,074 Transportation and gathering 2,290 2,422 2,306 2,002 3,248 Gain (loss) on retirement of securities (39 ) 18,526 Derivative fair value (loss) income (7,767 ) 142,395 10,303 614 (1,282 ) Other 5,031 856 1,024 1,588 (865 ) Total revenue 862,091 744,812 509,103 283,068 198,701 Costs and expenses Direct operating 108,741 81,261 57,866 39,419 28,110 Production and ad valorem taxes 42,443 36,415 30,822 19,845 12,059 Exploration 43,345 44,088 29,529 12,619 12,530 General and administrative 68,428 49,886 33,444 20,634 17,818 Deferred compensation plan 28,332 6,873 29,474 19,176 6,559 Interest expense and dividends on trust preferred 77,737 55,849 37,619 22,437 21,507 Depletion, depreciation and amortization 227,328 154,739 114,364 80,628 62,687 Total costs and expenses 596,354 429,111 333,118 214,758 161,270 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and accounting change 265,737 315,701 175,985 68,310 37,431 Income tax provision (benefit) Current 320 1,912 1,071 (245 ) 170 Deferred 98,441 119,840 64,809 25,327 14,125 98,761 121,752 65,880 25,082 14,295 Income from continuing operations 166,976 193,949 110,105 43,228 23,136 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 63,593 (35,247 ) 906 (997 ) 7,788 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 230,569 158,702 111,011 42,231 30,924 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, net of taxes 4,491 Net income 230,569 158,702 111,011 42,231 35,415 Preferred dividends (5,163 ) (803 ) Net income available to common stockholders $ 230,569 $ 158,702 $ 111,011 $ 37,068 $ 34,612 Earnings per common share: Basic income from continuing operations $ 1.16 $ 1.45 $ 0.89 $ 0.41 $ 0.27 income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.44 (0.26 ) (0.01 ) 0.10 cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 0.05 net income $ 1.60 $ 1.19 $ 0.89 $ 0.40 $ 0.42 Diluted income from continuing operations $ 1.11 $ 1.39 $ 0.85 $ 0.39 $ 0.27 income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.43 (0.25 ) 0.01 (0.01 ) 0.09 cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 0.05 net income $ 1.54 $ 1.14 $ 0.86 $ 0.38 $ 0.41 22 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our business and results of operations together with our present financial condition. This section should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Statements in our discussion may be forward looking. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that a number of factors could cause future production, revenues and expenses to differ materially from our expectations. See Disclosures Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Annual Report and Risk Factors in Item 1A for additional discussion of some of these factors and risks. Items Impacting the Comparability to Prior Year Reports In March 2007, we sold our Gulf of Mexico properties for proceeds of $155.0 million. Accordingly, the financial and statistical data contained in the following discussion for all periods presented reflects the reclassification of our Gulf of Mexico operations to discontinued operations. Overview of Our Business We are an independent oil and gas company engaged in the exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, primarily in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. We operate in one segment. We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Our strategy is to increase reserves and production through internally generated drilling projects coupled with complementary acquisitions. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and gas and on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas activities. Our corporate headquarters are in Fort Worth, Texas. Industry Environment We operate entirely within the United States, a mature region for the exploration and production of oil and gas. As a mature region, while new discoveries of oil and gas occur in the United States, the size and frequency of these discoveries is generally declining, while finding and development costs are increasing. We believe that there remain areas of the United States, such as the Appalachian Basin and certain areas in our Southwest and Gulf Coast Areas, which are underexplored or have not been fully explored and developed with the benefit of newly available exploration, production and reserve enhancement technology. Examples of such technology include advanced 3 D seismic processing, hydraulic reservoir fracture stimulation, advances in well logging and analysis, horizontal drilling and completion techniques, secondary and tertiary recovery practices, and automated remote well monitoring and control devices. Another characteristic of a mature region is the historical exit of larger independent producers and major oil companies from such regions. These companies, searching for ever larger new discoveries, have ventured increasingly overseas and offshore, de emphasizing their onshore United States assets. This movement out of mature basins by larger companies has provided acquisition opportunities for companies like ours that maintain well equipped technical teams capable of generating additional value from these assets. In other situations, to increase cash flow without increasing capital spending, larger independent producers and major integrated oil companies have allowed smaller companies the opportunity to explore and develop reserves on their undeveloped acreage through joint ventures and farm in arrangements. We believe the acquisition market for oil and gas properties has become extremely competitive as producers vie for additional production and expanded drilling opportunities. Acquisition values have reached historic highs and we expect these values to remain high in 2008. In addition, we expect drilling and service costs to remain at a high level in 2008 and for lease operating expenses to continue to rise as producers are forced to make operational enhancements to maintain aging fields. Oil and gas is a commodity. The price that we receive for the natural gas we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand for natural gas in the United States has increased dramatically over the last ten years. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, estimates of gas in storage, weather and other seasonal condition, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Market conditions involving over or under supply of natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile and we expect the volatility to continue in the future. A factor impacting the future supply balance is the recent increase in the United States LNG import capacity. Significant LNG capacity 23 Table of Contents increases have been announced which may result in increased price volatility. A substantial or extended decline in oil and gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and gas reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets. Source of Our Revenues We derive our revenues from the sale of oil and gas that is produced from our properties. Revenues are a function of the volume produced, the prevailing market price at the time of sale, quality, BTU content and transportation costs to market. The price of oil and natural gas is the primary factor affecting our revenues. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to downward price fluctuations, we use derivative instruments to hedge future sales prices on a significant portion of our natural gas and oil production. During 2006 and 2005 the use of derivative instruments prevented us from realizing the full benefit of upward price movements and may continue to do so in future periods. Our realized price calculations include the effects of the settlement of derivative contracts that are accounted for as hedges and the settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges. Principal Components of Our Cost Structure Direct Operating Expenses. These are day to day costs incurred to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market together with the daily costs incurred to maintain our producing properties. Such costs also include workovers and repairs to our oil and gas properties. These costs are expected to remain high in 2008 as the demand for these services continues to increase. Direct operating expenses also include stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. These costs are taxes paid on produced oil and gas based on a percentage of market prices (not at hedged prices) or at fixed rates established by federal, state or local taxing authorities. Exploration Expense. Geological and geophysical costs, including payroll and benefits for the geological and geophysical staff, seismic costs, delay rentals and the costs of unsuccessful exploratory or dry holes. Exploration expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. General and Administrative Expense. Overhead, including payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, costs of managing our production and development operations, audit and other professional fees and legal compliance are included in general and administrative expense. General and administrative expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Interest. We typically finance a portion of our working capital requirements and acquisitions with borrowings under our bank credit facility and with our longer term debt securities. As a result, we incur substantial interest expense that is affected by both fluctuations in interest rates and our financing decisions. We will likely continue to incur significant interest expense as we continue to grow. We expect our 2008 capital budget to be funded primarily with internal cash flow and asset sales. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. The systematic expensing of the capitalized costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop natural gas and oil. As a successful efforts company, we capitalize all costs associated with our acquisition and development efforts and all successful exploration efforts, and apportion these costs to each unit of production through depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. This expense includes the systematic, monthly accretion of the future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. This category also includes unproved property impairment and costs associated with lease expirations. Income Taxes. We are subject to state and federal income taxes but are currently not in a tax paying position for regular federal income taxes, primarily due to the current deductibility of intangible drilling costs (IDC). We do pay some state income taxes where our IDC deductions do not exceed our taxable income or where state income taxes are determined on another basis. Currently, substantially all of our federal taxes are deferred; however, at some point, we anticipate using all of our net operating loss carryforwards and we will recognize current income tax expense and continue to recognize current tax expense as long as we are generating taxable income. 24 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income and Operations Overview of 2007 Results During 2007, we achieved the following results: Achieved 22% production growth and 27% reserve growth; Drilled 698 net wells; Continued expansion of drilling inventory and emerging plays; Posted record financial results and continued balance sheet improvements; and Completed acquisitions of properties containing 133 Bcfe of proved reserves. Our 2007 performance reflects another year of successfully executing our strategy of growth through drilling and complementary acquisitions. The business of exploring for, developing, and acquiring oil and gas is highly competitive and capital intensive. As in any commodity business, the costs associated with finding, acquiring, extracting, and financing the operation are critical to profitability and long term value creation for stockholders. Generating meaningful growth while containing costs presents an ongoing challenge. During periods of historically high oil and gas prices, drilling service and operating cost increases are more prevalent due to increased competition for goods and services. We faced other challenges in 2007 including attracting and retaining qualified personnel, consummating and integrating acquisitions, and accessing the capital markets to fund our growth on sufficiently favorable terms. We have continued to expand and improve the technical staff through the hiring of additional experienced professionals. Our inventory of exploration and development prospects continues to be strong, providing new growth opportunities, greater diversification of technical risk and better efficiency. Total revenues increased 16% in 2007 over the same period of 2006. This increase is due to higher production and higher realized oil and gas prices. Our 2007 production growth is due to the continued success of our drilling program and to acquisitions completed in 2006 and 2007. Realized prices were higher by 18% in 2007. As discussed in Item 1A of this report, significant changes in oil and gas prices can have a significant impact on our balance sheet and our results of operations, including the fair value of our derivatives. Oil and Gas Sales, Production and Realized Price Calculations Our oil and gas sales vary from year to year as a result of changes in commodity prices or volumes of production sold. Hedges realized reflect settlements on those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting. Oil and gas sales increased 44% from 2006 due to a 22% increase in production and an 18% increase in realized prices. Oil and gas sales in 2006 increased 21% from 2005 due to an 18% increase in production and a 3% increase in realized prices. The following table illustrates the primary components of oil and gas sales for each of the last three years (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Oil and Gas Sales Oil wellhead $ 226,686 $ 189,516 $ 156,102 Oil hedges realized (23,755 ) (45,265 ) (42,948 ) Total oil revenue $ 202,931 $ 144,251 $ 113,154 Gas wellhead $ 585,538 $ 466,099 $ 461,132 Gas hedges realized 27,916 (47,916 ) (106,404 ) Total gas revenue $ 613,454 $ 418,183 $ 354,728 NGL $ 46,152 $ 36,705 $ 31,891 NGL hedges realized (4,302 ) Total NGL revenue $ 46,152 $ 36,705 $ 27,589 Combined wellhead $ 858,376 $ 692,320 $ 649,126 Combined hedges 4,161 (93,181 ) (153,655 ) Total oil and gas sales $ 862,537 $ 599,139 $ 495,471 25 Table of Contents Our production continues to grow through continued drilling success and additions from acquisitions. For 2007, our production volumes increased 15% in our Appalachia Area, increased 28% in our Southwest Area and declined 17% in our Gulf Coast Area. For 2006, our production volumes increased 10% in our Appalachia Area, increased 29% in our Southwest Area and declined 36% in our Gulf Coast Area. Our production for each of the last three years is set forth in the following table: 2007 2006 2005 Production Crude oil (bbls) 3,359,668 3,039,150 2,929,013 NGLs (bbls) 1,114,730 1,091,785 1,011,692 Natural gas (mcf) 89,594,626 70,712,770 57,608,816 Total (mcfe) (a) 116,441,014 95,498,380 81,253,046 Average daily production Crude oil (bbls) 9,205 8,326 8,025 NGLs (bbls) 3,054 2,991 2,772 Natural gas (mcf) 245,465 193,734 157,832 Total (mcfe) (a) 319,016 261,639 222,611 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) received for oil and gas during 2007 was $8.02 per mcfe compared to $6.80 per mcfe in 2006 and $6.13 per mcfe in 2005. Our average realized price calculation (including all derivative settlements) includes all cash settlements for derivatives, whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Average price calculations for each of the last three years is shown below: 2007 2006 2005 Average Prices Average sales prices (wellhead): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 67.47 $ 62.36 $ 53.30 NGLs (per bbl) $ 41.40 $ 33.62 $ 31.52 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 6.54 $ 6.59 $ 8.00 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 7.37 $ 7.25 $ 7.99 Average realized prices (including derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 60.40 $ 47.46 $ 38.63 NGLs (per bbl) $ 41.40 $ 33.62 $ 27.27 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 6.85 $ 5.91 $ 6.16 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 7.41 $ 6.27 $ 6.10 Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 60.16 $ 47.46 $ 38.63 NGLs (per bbl) $ 41.40 $ 33.62 $ 27.27 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 7.66 $ 6.62 $ 6.21 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 8.02 $ 6.80 $ 6.13 Average NYMEX prices (b): Oil (per bbl) $ 72.34 $ 66.22 $ 56.56 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 6.92 $ 7.26 $ 8.55 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. (b) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. 26 Table of Contents Derivative fair value income (loss) decreased to a loss of $7.8 million in 2007 compared to a gain of $142.4 million in 2006 and a gain of $10.3 million in 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005, certain of our gas hedges no longer qualified for hedge accounting due to the effect of gas price volatility on the correlation between realized prices and hedge reference prices. Also, as a result of the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, the portion of our derivatives which were designated to our Gulf of Mexico production was marked to market resulting in fair value income of $209,000. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we began marking a portion of our oil hedges designated as Permian Basin production to market due to the anticipated sale of a portion of our Permian properties resulting in derivative fair value loss of $14.7 million. The loss of hedge accounting treatment creates volatility in our revenues as gains and losses from non hedge derivatives are included in total revenues and are not included in our balance sheet in accumulated other compensation loss. As commodity prices increase or decrease such changes will have an opposite effect on the mark to market value of our derivatives. Because oil prices increased dramatically in 2007, our derivatives became comparatively less valuable. However, we expect these losses will be offset by higher wellhead revenues in the future. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, we have also entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting purposes and are marked to market. Hedge ineffectiveness included in this category is associated with our hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The following table presents information about the components of derivative fair value income (loss) for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2007 (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Hedge ineffectiveness realized $ 968 $ $ unrealized (a) (820 ) 5,965 (3,471 ) Change in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for (78,769 ) 86,491 10,868 hedge accounting (a) Realized gain on settlements gas (b) 71,098 49,939 2,906 Realized loss on settlements oil (b) (244 ) Derivative fair value (loss) income $ (7,767 ) $ 142,395 $ 10,303 (a) These amounts are unrealized and are not included in average sales price calculations. (b) These amounts represent realized gains and losses on settled derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting which before settlement have been recognized in the unrealized mark to market component of derivative fair value income (loss). These settlements are included in average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements). Other revenue increased in 2007 to a gain of $5.0 million compared to a gain of $856,000 in 2006 and a gain of $1.0 million in 2005. The 2007 period includes income from equity method investments of $974,000 and other miscellaneous income. The 2006 period includes income from equity method investments of $548,000. The 2005 period includes income of $514,000 from Independent Producer Finance, one of our businesses that no longer operates. Comparison of 2007 and 2006 Expenses Our unit costs have increased as we continue to grow. We believe some of our expense fluctuations should be analyzed on a unit of production, or per mcfe basis. The following table presents information about certain of our expenses on a per mcfe basis for 2007 and 2006: Operating expenses (per mcfe) 2007 2006 Change % Change Direct operating expense $ 0.93 $ 0.85 $ 0.08 9 % Production and ad valorem tax expense 0.36 0.38 (0.02 ) 5 % General and administrative expense 0.59 0.52 0.07 13 % Interest expense 0.67 0.58 0.09 15 % Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense 1.95 1.62 0.33 20 % Direct operating expense for 2007 increased $27.5 million, or 33.8%, to $108.7 million due to higher oilfield service costs, higher volumes and the integration of our recent acquisitions. Our operating expenses are increasing as we add new wells and maintain production from our existing properties. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses were $0.93 and increased $0.08 from 2006 with the increase consisting primarily of higher water disposal costs ($0.02 per mcfe), higher well services and equipment costs ($0.04 per mcfe), higher workover costs ($0.02 per mcfe) and a $0.01 per mcfe increase in stock based compensation. The following table summarizes direct operating expenses per mcfe for 2007 and 2006: 27 Table of Contents % 2007 2006 Change Change Lease operating expense $ 0.85 $ 0.80 $ 0.05 6 % Workovers 0.06 0.04 0.02 50 % Stock based compensation 0.02 0.01 0.01 100 % Total direct operating expenses $ 0.93 $ 0.85 $ 0.08 9 % Production and ad valorem taxes are paid based on market prices and not hedged prices. For 2007, these taxes increased $6.0 million, or 17%, from the same period of the prior year. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes decreased from $0.38 in 2006 to $0.36 in 2007 with lower ad valorem taxes per mcfe due to lower property tax rates in Texas as a result of the new margin tax. General and administrative expense for 2007 increased $18.5 million, or 37%, primarily due to higher salaries and benefits of $9.2 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher office rent and general office expense of $2.3 million ($0.01 per mcfe) and higher stock based compensation of $4.0 million ($0.01 per mcfe). The stock based compensation expense represents amortization of restricted stock grants and stock option/SARs expense under SFAS No. 123(R). On a per mcfe basis, general and administration expense increased from $0.52 in 2006 to $0.59 in 2007. The following table summarizes general and administrative expenses per mcfe for 2007 and 2006: % 2007 2006 Change Change General and administrative $ 0.43 $ 0.37 $ 0.06 16 % Stock based compensation 0.16 0.15 0.01 7 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 0.59 $ 0.52 $ 0.07 13 % Interest expense for 2007 increased $21.9 million, or 39%, to $77.7 million with higher average debt balances and the refinancing of certain debt from short term floating to longer term fixed rates. In September 2007, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 which added $4.8 million of interest costs in 2007. In May 2006, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016 which increased interest expense by $9.1 million in 2007. The proceeds from these issuances were used to retire shorter term lower rate bank debt. In 2007, the average debt outstanding on the bank credit facility was $417.6 million with an average interest rate of 6.4% compared to an average debt outstanding in 2006 of $347.8 million, with an average interest rates of 6.4%. Depletion, depreciation and amortization (DDA) for 2007 increased $72.6 million, or 47%, to $227.3 million, due to higher production and higher depletion rates. Depletion rates increased 16%, or $0.24 per mcfe, due to increased drilling costs and the mix of our production. DDA increased from $1.62 per mcfe in 2006 to $1.95 per mcfe in 2007. For 2008, based on our current reserve base, we expect our DDA rate to average approximately $2.10 per mcfe. The twelve months ended 2007 also includes higher unproved property impairment of $3.0 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher acreage expiration expense of $3.4 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher accretion expense related to asset retirement obligations of $2.3 million ($0.01 per mcfe) and higher depreciation expense of $3.3 million ($0.01 per mcfe). In the fourth quarter of 2006, we lowered our salvage value estimates on our Appalachia wells which increased DDA expense by $4.6 million. Our operating expenses also include other expenses that generally do not trend with production. These expenses include stock based compensation, exploration expense and deferred compensation plan expense. In 2007, stock based compensation of $24.0 million is a component of direct operating expense ($1.8 million), exploration expense ($3.5 million) and general and administrative expense ($18.2 million). In 2006, stock based compensation of $19.1 million is a component of direct operating expense ($1.4 million), exploration expense ($3.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($14.3 million). In 2007 and 2006, this expense represents the amortization of restricted stock grants, stock options and SARs as they become vested. 28 Table of Contents Exploration expense for 2007 decreased $743,000, or 2%, to $43.3 million due to lower seismic costs ($4.3 million) somewhat offset by higher personnel costs. The following table details our exploration related expenses (in thousands): % 2007 2006 Change Change Dry hole expense $ 15,149 $ 15,084 $ 65 Seismic 10,933 15,277 (4,344 ) 28 % Personnel expense 8,924 6,917 2,007 29 % Stock based compensation expense 3,473 3,079 394 13 % Delay rentals and other 4,866 3,731 1,135 30 % Total exploration expense $ 43,345 $ 44,088 $ (743 ) 2 % Deferred compensation plan expense for 2007 increased to $28.3 million, or 312%, from $6.9 million in 2006. This non cash expense relates to the increase or decrease in value of our common stock and other investments held in our deferred compensation plans. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded adjustments that decreased deferred compensation plan expense by $12.4 million. Such adjustments were the result of an incorrect practice of adjusting our deferred compensation liability for market value changes in unvested shares held in our deferred compensation plan. In addition, interest and dividends related to the marketable securities held in the deferred compensation plan were inappropriately recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Of the $12.4 million decrease in deferred compensation expense, $7.1 million is related to periods prior to 2007 and $5.3 million is related to the first three quarters of 2007. Our common stock price increased from $26.34 per share at the end of 2005 to $27.46 per share at the end of 2006 to $51.36 per share at the end of 2007. Income tax expense for 2007 decreased $23.0 million, or 19%, to $98.8 million due to a 16% decrease in income from continuing operations. Our effective tax rate was 37% for 2007 compared to 39% for 2006. The twelve months ended December 31, 2007 includes a non recurring $3.0 million tax benefit related to an increase in the Texas Margin Tax credit carryover. This benefit is related to a change in the Texas law allowing companies to realize tax attributes carrying forward from the previously applicable Texas Franchise tax to the new Texas Margin tax. The twelve months ended December 31, 2006 includes a $2.8 million tax expense for changes in state tax rates. We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 37% for 2008. Given our available net operating loss carryover, we do not expect to pay significant federal income taxes. We received a refund of $299,000 for state income taxes in 2007. Discontinued operations includes the operating results related to our Gulf of Mexico properties and Austin Chalk properties that we sold in the first quarter of 2007. See also Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Comparison of 2006 to 2005 Expenses Our unit costs have increased as we continue to grow. We believe some of our expense fluctuations should be analyzed on a unit of production, or per mcfe basis. The following table presents information about certain of our operating expenses on a per mcfe basis for 2006 and 2005: % Operating expenses (per mcfe) 2006 2005 Change Change Direct operating expense $ 0.85 $ 0.71 $ 0.14 20 % Production and ad valorem tax expense 0.38 0.38 General and administration expense 0.52 0.41 0.11 27 % Interest expense 0.58 0.46 0.12 26 % Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense 1.62 1.41 0.21 15 % Direct operating expense for 2006 increased $23.4 million to $81.3 million due to higher oilfield service costs, higher volumes and the integration of our recent acquisitions. Our operating expenses are increasing as we add new wells and maintain production from our existing properties. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses were $0.85 and increased 20% or $0.14 from 2005 consisting of higher utilities ($0.01 per mcfe), higher water disposal and equipment costs ($0.06 per mcfe) and higher pumper expenses ($0.01 per mcfe). The following table summarizes direct operating expenses per mcfe for 2006 and 2005: 29 Table of Contents % 2006 2005 Change Change Lease operating $ 0.80 $ 0.66 $ 0.14 21 % Workovers 0.04 0.04 % Stock based compensation 0.01 0.01 % Total direct operating expenses $ 0.85 $ 0.71 $ 0.14 20 % Production and ad valorem taxes are paid based on market prices and not hedged prices. For 2006, these taxes increased $5.6 million, or 18%, from the same period of the prior year. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes remained the same at $0.38. General and administrative expense for 2006 increased $16.4 million, or 49%, to 49.9 million, from 2005 due primarily to higher salaries and benefits of $6.0 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher office rent and general office expenses of $1.0 million ($0.01 per mcfe) and higher stock based compensation expense of $9.4 million ($0.09 per mcfe). The stock based compensation expense represents amortization of restricted stock grants in 2006 and 2005, expense related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006 and the mark to market of SARs granted to employees in 2005. On a per mcfe basis, general and administration expense increased 27% from $0.41 in 2005 to $0.52 in 2006. The following table summarizes general and administrative expenses per mcfe for 2006 and 2005: % 2006 2005 Change Change General and administrative expense $ 0.37 $ 0.35 $ 0.02 6 % Stock based compensation 0.15 0.06 0.09 150 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 0.52 $ 0.41 $ 0.11 27 % Interest expense for 2006 increased $18.2 million, or 48%, to $55.8 million with higher average interest rates, higher average debt balances and the refinancing of certain debt from short term floating to longer term fixed rates. In May 2006, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes which added $9.7 million of interest costs. The proceeds from this issuance were used to retire shorter term bank debt. Average debt outstanding on the bank credit facility was $347.8 million with an average interest rate of 6.4% compared to an average debt outstanding in 2005 of $314.8 million with an average interest rate of 4.5%. Depletion, depreciation and amortization for 2006 increased $40.4 million, or 35%, to $154.7 million due to higher production and higher depletion rates. DDA increased from $1.41 per mcfe in 2005 to $1.62 per mcfe in 2006. This increase is primarily related to our Stroud acquisition, increasing drilling costs and the mix of our production. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we lowered our salvage value estimates on our Appalachia wells which increased DDA expense by $4.6 million. Operating expenses also include stock based compensation, exploration expense and deferred compensation plan expenses that generally do not trend with production. In 2006, stock based compensation expense is a component of direct operating expense ($1.4 million), exploration expense ($3.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($14.3 million) and a $320,000 reduction of gas transportation revenues for a total of $19.1 million. In 2005, stock based compensation is a component of direct operating expense ($480,000), exploration expense ($1.2 million) and general and administrative expense ($4.9 million) and a reduction of $117,000 of gas transportation revenues for a total of $6.7 million. This expense represents the amortization of restricted stock grants in 2006 and 2005, expense related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006 and in 2005, the mark to market of SARs granted to employees. Exploration expense increased 49% to $44.1 million due to higher seismic costs ($2.0 million), higher dry hole costs ($8.5 million) and higher personnel costs. The following table details our exploration related expenses (in thousands): % 2006 2005 Change Change Dry hole expense $ 15,084 $ 6,560 $ 8,524 130 % Seismic 15,277 13,292 1,985 15 % Personnel expense 6,917 5,872 1,045 18 % Stock based compensation expense 3,079 1,250 1,829 146 % Other 3,731 2,555 1,176 46 % Total exploration expense $ 44,088 $ 29,529 $ 14,559 49 % 30 Table of Contents Deferred compensation plan expense for 2006 decreased $22.6 million, or 77%, to $6.9 million. This non cash expense relates to the increase or decrease in value of our common stock and other investments held in our deferred compensation plans. Our common stock price increased from $13.64 per share at the end of 2004 to $26.34 per share at the end of 2005 to $27.46 per share at the end of 2006. Tax expense for 2006 increased $55.9 million, or 85%, to $121.8 million due to a 79% increase in income from continuing operations. Our effective tax rate was 39% for 2006 compared to 37% in 2005. Given our available net operating loss carryforward, we do not expect to pay significant federal income taxes. The twelve months ended December 31, 2006 includes a $2.8 million adjustment for changes in state tax rates. We paid $1.8 million of state taxes in 2006. Discontinued operations for 2006 and 2005 includes the results of operations for our Gulf of Mexico assets which were sold in the first quarter of 2007. Discontinued operations for 2006 also includes the operating results and impairment losses on the Austin Chalk properties which were acquired as part of our 2006 Stroud acquisition. Due to significant price declines after the purchase of these properties and volumes produced since the acquisition, we recognized an impairment of $74.9 million. These properties were also sold in the first quarter of 2007. See also Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Our main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, a committed bank credit facility, asset sales and access to both the debt and equity capital markets. During 2007, our net cash provided from continuing operations of $632.1 million, proceeds from our April 2007 common stock offering of $280.4 million, proceeds from our September 2007 note offering of $250.0 million and proceeds from the sale of assets of $234.3 million were used to fund $1.2 billion of capital expenditures (including acquisitions and equity investments). At December 31, 2007 we had $4.0 million in cash and total assets of $4.0 billion. Our debt to capitalization ratio was 40.0% at December 31, 2007 compared to 45.5% at December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, our total capitalization was as follows (in thousands): 2007 2006 Bank debt $ 303,500 $ 452,000 Senior subordinated notes 847,158 596,782 Total debt 1,150,658 1,048,782 Stockholders equity 1,728,022 1,256,161 Total capitalization $ 2,878,680 $ 2,304,943 Debt to capitalization ratio 40 % 46 % Long term debt at December 31, 2007 totaled $1.2 billion, including $303.5 million of bank credit facility debt and $847.2 million of senior subordinated notes. Our available borrowing capacity at December 31, 2007 was $596.5 million. Cash is required to fund capital expenditures necessary to offset inherent declines in production and reserves which is typical in the oil and gas industry. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on capital resources available and the success of finding or acquiring additional reserves. We believe that net cash generated from operating activities and unused committed borrowing capacity under the bank credit facility combined with our oil and gas price hedges currently in place will be adequate to satisfy near term financial obligations and liquidity needs. However, long term cash flows are subject to a number of variables including the level of production and prices as well as various economic conditions that have historically affected the oil and gas business. A material drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production and reserves would reduce our ability to fund capital expenditures, reduce debt, meet financial obligations and remain profitable. We operate in an environment with numerous financial and operating risks, including, but not limited to, the inherent risks of the search for, development and production of oil and gas, the ability to buy properties and sell production at prices which provide an attractive return and the highly competitive nature of the industry. Our ability to expand our reserve base is, in part, dependent on obtaining sufficient capital through internal cash flow, bank borrowings or the issuance of debt or equity securities. There can be no assurance that internal cash flow and other capital sources will provide sufficient funds to maintain capital expenditures that we believe are necessary to offset inherent declines in production and proved reserves. Bank Debt We maintain a $900.0 million revolving credit facility, which we refer to as our bank debt or our bank credit facility. The bank credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets and matures on October 25, 2012. Availability under the bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base set by the lenders semi annually with an option to set more often in certain circumstances. The borrowing base is dependent on a number of factors, primarily the lenders assessment of future cash flows. Redeterminations of the borrowing base require approval of 75% of the lenders; increases require unanimous approval. 31 Table of Contents At February 20, 2008, the bank credit facility had a $1.5 billion borrowing base and a $900.0 million facility amount. Credit availability is equal to the lesser of the facility amount or the borrowing base resulting in credit availability of $300.5 million on February 20, 2008. The facility amount can be increased to the borrowing base with twenty days notice. Our bank debt and our subordinated notes impose limitations on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments (as defined under the debt agreements for our bank debt and our subordinated notes). Under the bank credit facility, common and preferred dividends are permitted. The terms of each of our subordinated notes limit restricted payments (including dividends) to the greater of $20.0 million or a formula based on earnings and equity issuances since the original issuances of the notes. The 7.5% senior subordinated notes due in 2016 and 2017 also allow for any cash proceeds received within twelve months from the sale of oil and gas properties purchased in an acquisition using stock as consideration to be added to the restricted payment basket. At December 31, 2007, approximately $922.4 million was available under the restricted payment baskets for each of the 7.375% senior subordinated notes, 6.375% senior subordinated notes and the $7.5% senior subordinated notes due in 2017. There was $1.0 billion available under the restricted payment basket for the 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016. The bank credit facility provides for a restricted payment basket of $20.0 million plus 66 2/3% of net cash proceeds from common stock issuances and 50% of net income. Approximately $735.2 million was available under the bank credit facility restricted payment basket as of December 31, 2007. The debt agreements contain customary covenants relating to debt incurrence, working capital, dividends and financial ratios. We were in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2007. Cash Flow Our principal sources of cash are operating cash flow, bank borrowings, asset sales and at times, issuance of debt and equity securities. Our operating cash flow is highly dependent on oil and gas prices. As of December 31, 2007, we had entered into hedging agreements covering 102.1 Bcfe for 2008 and 61.3 Bcfe for 2009. The $808.4 million of cash capital expenditures for 2007, excluding acquisitions, was funded with internal cash flow and proceeds from asset sales. The $1.1 billion capital budget for 2008, which excludes acquisitions, is expected to increase production and to expand the reserve base. Based on current projections, oil and gas futures prices and our hedge position, the 2008 capital program is expected to be funded, primarily with internal cash flow and asset sales. Net cash provided from continuing operations in 2007 was $632.1 million, compared to $441.5 million in 2006 and $288.6 million in 2005. In 2007, cash flow from continuing operations increased due to higher production volumes and higher realized prices partially offset by increasing operating costs. In 2006, cash flow from operations increased due to higher production volumes and prices partially offset by increasing operating, exploration and interest expenses. In 2005, cash flow from operations increased due to higher volumes and prices partially offset by increasing operating costs. Net cash used in investing activities in 2007 was $1.0 billion, compared to $911.7 million in 2006 and $432.4 million in 2005. In 2007, we spent $782.4 million in additions to oil and gas properties, $336.5 million on acquisitions and $94.7 on equity method investments. Also in 2007, we recognized proceeds of $234.3 million from the sale of assets. The 2006 period included $487.2 million in additions to oil and gas properties and $360.1 million of acquisitions. The 2005 period included $266.4 million in additions to oil and gas properties and $153.6 million of acquisitions. Net cash provided from financing activities in 2007 was $379.9 million, compared to $429.4 million in 2006 and $93.0 million in 2005. Historically, sources of financing have been primarily bank borrowings and capital raised through equity and debt offerings. During 2007, we received proceeds of $250.0 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 and proceeds of $280.4 million from a common stock offering. During 2006, we received proceeds of $249.5 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016. During 2005, the outstanding balance under our bank credit facility declined $154.7 million primarily due to the proceeds received from the 6.375% senior subordinated notes due 2017 being applied to our bank debt. During 2005, we also received proceeds of $109.2 million from a common stock offering. Capital Requirements Our primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, repayment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and payment of dividends. During 2007, $820.0 million of capital was expended on drilling projects. Also in 2007, $339.0 million was expended on acquisitions primarily to purchase additional interests in producing properties and unproved acreage. The capital program, excluding acquisitions, was funded by net cash flow from operations and proceeds from asset sales. The 2008 capital budget of $1.1 billion, excluding acquisitions, is expected to be funded primarily by cash flow from operations and asset sales. Development and exploration activities are highly discretionary, and, for the foreseeable future, we expect such activities to be maintained at levels equal to internal cash flow and asset sales. To the extent capital requirements exceed internal cash flow and proceeds from asset sales, debt or equity may be issued to fund these requirements. We currently believe we have sufficient liquidity and cash flow to meet our obligations for the next twelve months; however, a drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production or reserves could adversely affect our 32 Table of Contents ability to fund capital expenditures and meet our financial obligations. Also, our obligations may change due to acquisitions, divestitures and continued growth. We may issue additional shares of stock, subordinated notes or other debt securities to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, extend maturities or to repay debt. Cash Dividend Payments The amount of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and primarily depends on earnings and capital expenditures. In 2007, we paid $19.1 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.03 per share in the third, second and first quarters). In 2006, we paid $12.2 million in dividends to our common stockholders ($0.03 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.02 per share in the third, second and first quarters). In 2005, we paid $7.6 million in dividends to our common stockholders ($0.0133 per share in the second and third quarters and $0.02 per share in the fourth quarter). Also in 2005, we paid $2.2 million in preferred stock dividends. Future Commitments In addition to our capital expenditure program, we are committed to making cash payments in the future on two types of contracts: note agreements and operating leases. As of December 31, 2007, we do not have any capital leases nor have we entered into any material long term contracts for equipment. As of December 31, 2007, we do not have any significant off balance sheet debt or other such unrecorded obligations and we have not guaranteed the debt of any other party. The table below provides estimates of the timing of future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place at December 31, 2007. In addition to the contractual obligations listed on the table below, our balance sheet at December 31, 2007 reflects accrued interest payable on our bank debt of $739,000 which is payable in the first quarter of 2008. We expect to make annual interest payments of $14.8 million per year on our 7.375% senior subordinated notes, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016, $9.6 million per year on our 6.375% senior subordinated notes and $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017. The following summarizes our contractual financial obligations at December 31, 2007 and their future maturities. We expect to fund these contractual obligations with cash generated from operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility and proceeds from asset sales. Payment due by period 2009 and 2011 and 2008 2010 2012 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Bank debt due 2012 $ $ $ 303,500 (a) $ $ 303,500 7.375% senior subordinated notes due 2013 200,000 200,000 6.375% senior subordinated notes due 2015 150,000 150,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016 250,000 250,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 250,000 250,000 Operating leases 9,657 19,221 12,801 8,568 50,247 Seismic agreements 500 300 800 Derivative obligations (b) 30,457 45,819 76,276 Asset retirement obligation liability 1,903 9,816 2,538 61,051 75,308 Total contractual obligations (c) $ 42,517 $ 75,156 $ 318,839 $ 919,619 $ 1,356,131 (a) Due at termination date of our bank credit facility. We expect to renew our bank credit facility, but there is no assurance that can be accomplished. Interest paid on our bank credit facility would be approximately $28.0 million each year assuming no change in the interest rate or outstanding balance. (b) Derivative obligations represent net open derivative contracts valued as of December 31, 2007. While such payments will be funded by higher prices received from the sale of our production, production receipts may be received after our payments to counterparties which can result in borrowings under our bank credit facility. (c) This table excludes the liability for the deferred compensation plans since these obligations will be funded with existing plan assets. Hedging Oil and Gas Prices We enter into derivative agreements to reduce the impact of oil and gas price volatility. At December 31, 2007, swaps were in place covering 71.3 Bcf of gas at prices averaging $8.82 per mcf. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas at weighted average floor and cap prices of $8.07 to $9.73 and 6.2 million barrels of oil at weighted average floor and cap prices of $61.54 to $75.72. The derivative fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized or payable on termination, based on a comparison of the contract price and a reference price, generally NYMEX, approximated a pretax loss of $22.3 million at December 31, 2007. The contracts expire monthly through December 2009. Settled transaction gains and 33 Table of Contents losses for derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are determined monthly and are included as increases or decreases on oil and gas sales in the period the hedged production is sold. Oil and gas sales included realized hedging gains of $4.2 million in 2007 compared to losses of $93.2 million in 2006 and losses of $153.7 million in 2005. Unrealized effective gains and losses on derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are recorded at an estimate of fair value based on a comparison of the contract price and a reference price, generally NYMEX, on our consolidated balance sheet as accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity. At December 31, 2007, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Average Hedge Price Natural Gas 2008 Swaps 155,000 Mmbtu/day $8.97 2008 Collars 70,000 Mmbtu/day $8.01 $10.83 2009 Swaps 40,000 Mmbtu/day $8.24 2009 Collars 80,000 Mmbtu/day $8.12 $8.76 Crude Oil 2008 Collars 9,000 bbl/day $59.34 $75.48 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $64.01 $76.00 Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are effective as economic hedges of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method the contracts are carried at their fair value on our consolidated balance sheet under the captions Unrealized derivative gains and Unrealized derivative losses. We recognize all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts in our consolidated statement of operations in the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). As of the fourth quarter of 2005, certain of our gas derivatives no longer qualified for hedge accounting and are marked to market. Also, as a result of the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, a portion of derivatives which were designated to our Gulf Coast production was marked to market. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we began marking a portion of our oil hedges designated as Permian production to market due to the anticipated sale of a portion of our Permian properties. Derivatives that no longer qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method described above. As of December 31, 2007, hedges on 64.0 Bcfe no longer qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting. During the third and fourth quarter of 2007, in addition to the swaps and collars above, we entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify as hedges for hedge accounting purposes and are marked to market. The price we receive for our production can be less than NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net unrealized pre tax gain of $145,000 at December 31, 2007. Interest Rates At December 31, 2007, we had $1.2 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $850.0 million bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $303.5 million bears interest at floating rates, which averaged 6.2% at year end 2007. The 30 day LIBOR rate on December 31, 2007 was 4.6%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 would cost us approximately $3.0 million in additional annual interest. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently utilize any off balance sheet arrangements to enhance our liquidity or capital resource position, or for any other purpose. Inflation and Changes in Prices Our revenues, the value of our assets and our ability to obtain bank loans or additional capital on attractive terms have been and will continue to be affected by changes in oil and gas prices and the costs to produce our reserves. Oil and gas prices are subject to significant fluctuations that are beyond our ability to control or predict. Although certain of our costs and expenses are affected by general inflation, inflation does not normally have a significant effect on our business. In a trend that began in 2004 and accelerated through 2007, commodity prices for oil and gas increased significantly. The higher prices have 34 Table of Contents led to increased activity in the industry and, consequently, rising costs. These cost trends have put pressure not only on our operating costs but also on our capital costs. We expect these costs to remain high for 2008. The following table indicates the average oil and gas prices received over the last five years and quarterly for 2007, 2006 and 2005. Average price calculations exclude all derivative settlements whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Oil is converted to natural gas equivalent at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Average Sales Prices (Wellhead) Average NYMEX Prices (a) Equivalent Oil Natural Gas (Per Mcf Oil Natural Gas (Per bbl) mcf) (Per mcfe) (Per bbl) (Per mcf) Annual 2007 $ 67.47 $ 6.54 $ 7.37 $ 72.34 $ 6.92 2006 62.36 6.59 7.25 66.22 7.26 2005 53.30 8.00 7.99 56.56 8.55 2004 39.20 5.80 5.79 41.41 6.09 2003 28.23 5.03 4.85 31.04 5.44 Quarterly 2007 First $ 56.01 $ 6.41 $ 6.88 $ 58.27 $ 6.96 Second 62.20 6.95 7.57 65.03 7.56 Third 70.51 5.97 7.01 75.38 6.13 Fourth 82.12 6.80 7.94 90.68 7.03 2006 First $ 59.74 $ 8.33 $ 8.41 $ 63.48 $ 9.07 Second 65.36 6.28 7.17 70.70 6.82 Third 64.53 6.12 7.00 70.48 6.53 Fourth 59.80 5.91 6.58 60.21 6.62 2005 First $ 47.01 $ 5.98 $ 6.25 $ 49.84 $ 6.32 Second 48.72 6.41 6.65 53.17 6.80 Third 59.94 7.88 8.16 63.19 8.25 Fourth 56.38 11.30 10.54 60.02 12.85 (a) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. Managements Discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable; however, actual results may differ. Certain accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (a) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the level of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to changes; and (b) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Oil and Gas Properties Proved reserves are defined by the SEC as those volumes of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed reserves are volumes expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Although our engineers are knowledgeable of and follow the guidelines 35 Table of Contents for reserves established by the SEC, the estimation of reserves requires engineers to make a significant number of assumptions based on professional judgment. Reserve estimates are updated at least annually and consider recent production levels and other technical information. Estimated reserves are often subject to future revisions, which could be substantial, based on the availability of additional information, including: reservoir performance, new geological and geophysical data, additional drilling, technological advancements, price and cost changes and other economic factors. Changes in oil and gas prices can lead to a decision to start up or shut in production, which can lead to revisions to reserve quantities. Reserve revisions in turn cause adjustments in the depletion rates used by us. We cannot predict what reserve revisions may be required in future periods. Reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering who reports directly to our Chief Operating Officer. To further ensure the reliability of our reserve estimates, we engage independent petroleum consultants to review our estimates of proved reserves. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. The following table sets forth a summary of the percent of reserves which were reviewed by independent petroleum consultants for each of the years ended 2007, 2006 and 2005. Audited (a) 2007 2006 2005 86% 87% 84% (a) Audited reserves are those reserves estimated by our employees and reviewed by an independent petroleum consultant. We use the successful efforts method to account for exploration and development expenditures. Unsuccessful exploration drilling costs are expensed and can have a significant effect on reported operating results. Successful exploration drilling costs and all development costs are capitalized and systematically charged to expense using the units of production method based on proved developed oil and gas reserves as estimated by our engineers and reviewed by independent engineers. Costs incurred for exploratory wells that find reserves that cannot yet be classified as proved are capitalized on our balance sheet if (a) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and (b) we are making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Proven property leasehold costs are charged to expense using the units of production method based on total proved reserves. Properties are assessed for impairment as circumstances warrant (at least annually) and impairments to value are charged to expense. The successful efforts method inherently relies upon the estimation of proved reserves, which includes proved developed and proved undeveloped volumes. We adhere to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies, for recognizing any impairment of capitalized costs to unproved properties. The greatest portion of these costs generally relate to the acquisition of leasehold costs. The costs are capitalized and periodically evaluated (at least quarterly) as to recoverability, based on changes brought about by economic factors and potential shifts in business strategy employed by management. We consider a combination of time, geologic and engineering factors to evaluate the need for impairment of these costs. Unproved properties had a net book value of $271.4 million in 2007 compared to $226.2 million in 2006 and $28.5 million in 2005. Depletion rates are determined based on reserve quantity estimates and the capitalized costs of producing properties. As the estimated reserves are adjusted, the depletion expense for a property will change, assuming no change in production volumes or the capitalized costs. Estimated reserves are used as the basis for calculating the expected future cash flows from a property, which are used to determine whether that property may be impaired. Reserves are also used to estimate the supplemental disclosure of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil and gas producing activities and reserve quantities in Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements. Changes in the estimated reserves are considered in estimates for accounting purposes and are reflected on a prospective basis. We monitor our long lived assets recorded in property, plant and equipment in our consolidated balance sheet to ensure they are fairly presented. We must evaluate our properties for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset could exceed its fair value. A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these evaluations since the results are based on estimated future events. Such events include a projection of future oil and natural gas sales prices, an estimate of the ultimate amount of recoverable oil and gas reserves that will be produced from a field, the timing of future production, future production costs, future abandonment costs, and future inflation. The need to test a property for impairment can be based on several factors, including a significant reduction in sales prices for oil and or gas, unfavorable adjustment to reserves, physical damage to production equipment and facilities, a change in costs, or other changes to contracts, environmental regulations or tax laws. All of these factors must be considered when testing a propertys carrying value for impairment. We cannot predict whether impairment charges may be required in the future. 36 Table of Contents We are required to develop estimates of fair value to allocate purchase prices paid to acquire businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price paid to acquire a business is allocated to its assets and liabilities based on the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. We use all available information to make these fair value determinations. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for information on these acquisitions. Oil and Gas Derivatives We enter into derivative contracts to mitigate our exposure to commodity price risk associated with future oil and natural gas production. These contracts have historically consisted of options, in the form of collars, and fixed price swaps. Under SFAS No. 133, every derivative instrument is required to be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or a liability measured at its fair value. If the derivative does not qualify as a hedge or is not designated as a hedge, the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized currently in earnings. If the derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (equity) to the extent that the hedge is effective and in the income statement to the extent it is ineffective. Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are effective as economic hedges of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method, the contracts are carried at their fair value on our consolidated balance sheet under the captions Unrealized derivative assets and Unrealized derivative liabilities. We recognize all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts on our consolidated statement of operations under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). As of the fourth quarter of 2005, certain of our gas derivatives no longer qualified for hedge accounting due to the effect of volatility of gas prices on the correlation between realized prices and hedge reference prices. Also, as a result of the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, the portion of derivatives which were designated to our Gulf Coast production no longer qualified for hedge accounting resulting in derivative fair value income of $209,000. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we began marking a portion of our oil hedges designated as Permian production to market due to the anticipated sale of a portion of our Permian properties resulting in derivative fair value loss of $14.7 million. These derivatives that no longer qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133 are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method described above. During the third and fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify as hedges for hedge accounting and are also marked to market. The price we receive for our gas production can be less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location, or basis, relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreement that effectively fix our basis adjustments. While there is a risk that the financial benefit of rising oil and gas prices may not be captured, we believe the benefits of stable and predictable cash flow are more important. Among these benefits are a more efficient utilization of existing personnel and planning for future staff additions, the flexibility to enter into long term projects requiring substantial committed capital, smoother and more efficient execution of our ongoing development drilling and production enhancement programs, more consistent returns on invested capital, and better access to bank and other credit markets. Asset Retirement Obligations We have significant obligations to remove tangible equipment and restore land at the end of oil and gas production operations. Removal and restoration obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells. Estimating the future asset removal costs is difficult and requires us to make estimates and judgments because most of the removal obligations are many years in the future and contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what constitutes removal. Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are regulatory, political, environmental, safety and public relations considerations. Inherent in the fair value calculation are numerous assumptions and judgments including the ultimate retirement costs, inflation factors, credit adjusted discount rates, timing of retirement, and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and political environments. To the extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present value of the existing asset retirement obligation, (ARO), a corresponding adjustment is made to the oil and gas property balance. In addition, increases in the discounted ARO liability resulting from the passage of time are reflected as accretion expense, a component of depletion, depreciation and amortization in our consolidated statement of operations. Due to the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, our ARO liability decreased $20.0 million. 37 Table of Contents Deferred Taxes We are subject to income and other taxes in all areas in which we operate. When recording income tax expense, certain estimates are required because income tax returns are generally filed many months after the close of a calendar year, tax returns are subject to audit which can take years to complete and future events often impact the timing of when income tax expenses and benefits are recognized. We have deferred tax assets relating to tax operating loss carryforwards and other deductible differences. We routinely evaluate deferred tax assets to determine the likelihood of realization. A valuation allowance is recognized on deferred tax assets when we believe that certain of these assets are not likely to be realized. In determining deferred tax liabilities, accounting rules require OCI to be considered, even though such income or loss has not yet been earned. At year end 2006, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $468.6 million, with $21.3 million of deferred tax liabilities related to unrealized deferred hedging gains included in OCI. At year end 2007, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $563.9 million, with $16.3 million of deferred tax assets related to unrealized hedging losses included in OCI. We may be challenged by taxing authorities over the amount and or timing of recognition of revenues and deductions in our various income tax returns. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for all taxes, gains or losses could occur in the future due to changes in estimates or resolution of outstanding tax matters. Contingent Liabilities A provision for legal, environmental and other contingent matters is charged to expense when the loss is probable and the cost or range of cost can be reasonably estimated. Judgment is often required to determine when expenses should be recorded for legal, environmental and contingent matters. In addition, we often must estimate the amount of such losses. In many cases, our judgment is based on the input of our legal advisors and on the interpretation of laws and regulations, which can be interpreted differently by regulators and or the courts. We monitor known and potential legal, environmental and other contingent matters and make our best estimate of when to record losses for these matters based on available information. Although we continue to monitor all contingencies closely, particularly our outstanding litigation, we currently have no material accruals for contingent liabilities. Revenue Recognition Oil, gas and natural gas liquids are recognized when the products are sold and delivery to the purchaser has occurred. We use the sales method the account for gas imbalances, recognizing revenue based on gas delivered rather than our working interest share of gas produced. Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measure at fair value. It requires that unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected be recorded in net income. The statement also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. For us, SFAS No. 159 will be effective January 1, 2008, and retrospective application is not permitted. Should we elect to apply the fair value option to any eligible items that exist at January 1, 2008, the effect of the first remeasurement to fair value would be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We will adopt SFAS No. 159 as of January 1, 2008 and the impact of the adoption will result in a reclassification of a $2.0 million pre tax loss related to our investment securities from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement. This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements but may require some entities to change their measurement practices. For us, SFAS No. 157 will be effective January 1, 2008. We have not yet determined whether SFAS No. 157 will have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. However, we believe we will be required to provide additional disclosures as part of future financial statements, beginning with the first quarter of 2008. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) replaces SFAS No. 141. The statement retains the purchase method of accounting for acquisitions, but requires a number of changes, including changes in the way assets and liabilities are recognized in the purchase accounting. It changes the recognition of 38 Table of Contents assets acquired and liabilities assumed arising from contingencies, requires the capitalization of in process research and development at fair value, and requires the expensing of acquisition related costs as incurred. The statement will apply prospectively to business combinations occurring in our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2009. We are currently evaluating provisions of this statement. ITEM 7A. QUANTITIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil and gas prices and interest rates. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposure. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. All accounts are US dollar denominated. Market Risk Our major market risk is exposure to oil and gas prices. Realized prices are primarily driven by worldwide prices for oil and spot market prices for North American gas production. Oil and gas prices have been volatile and unpredictable for many years. Commodity Price Risk We periodically enter into derivative arrangements with respect to our oil and gas production. These arrangements are intended to reduce the impact of oil and gas price fluctuations. Certain of our derivatives are swaps where we receive a fixed price for our production and pay market prices to the counterparty. Our derivatives program also includes collars which assume a minimum floor price and a predetermined ceiling price. Historically, we applied hedge accounting to derivatives utilized to manage price risk associated with our oil and gas production. Accordingly, we recorded change in the fair value of our swap and collar contracts, including changes associated with time value, under the caption, Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and into oil and gas sales when the forecasted sale of production occurs. Any hedge ineffectiveness associated with contracts qualifying for and designated as a cash flow hedge is reported currently each period under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss) in our consolidated statement of operations. Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are effective as economic hedges of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method, the contracts are carried at their fair value on our consolidated balance sheet under the captions Unrealized derivative gains and Unrealized derivative losses. We recognize all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts in our consolidated statement of operations under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). Generally, derivative losses occur when market prices increase, which are offset by gains on the underlying physical commodity transaction. Conversely, derivative gains occur when market prices decrease, which are offset by losses on the underlying commodity transaction. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had oil and gas swaps in place covering 71.3 Bcf of gas. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas and 6.2 million barrels of oil. These contracts expire monthly through December 2009. The fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized upon immediate liquidation as of December 31, 2007, approximated a net unrealized pre tax loss of $22.3 million. At December 31, 2007, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Average Hedge Price Fair Market Value (in thousands) Natural Gas 2008 Swaps 155,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.97 $ 64,982 2008 Collars 55,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.01 $10.83 $ 19,288 2009 Swaps 40,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.24 $ (3,812 ) 2009 Collars 80,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.12 $8.76 $ (3,070 ) Crude Oil 2008 Collars 9,000 bbl/day $ 59.34 $75.48 $ (59,624 ) 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $ 64.01 $76.00 $ (40,085 ) 39 Table of Contents Other Commodity Risk We are impacted by basis risk, caused by factors that affect the relationship between commodity futures prices reflected in derivative commodity instruments and the cash market price of the underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices experienced in local markets. If commodity price changes in one region are not reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased basis risk. In addition to the collars and swaps above, during the third and fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting purpose and are marked to market. The price we receive for our gas production can be less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net realized pre tax gain of $145,000 at December 31, 2007. In 2007, a 10% reduction in oil and gas prices, excluding amounts fixed through hedging transactions, would have reduced revenue by $85.4 million. If oil and gas futures prices at December 31, 2007 had declined by 10%, the unrealized hedging gain at that date would have increased $137.9 million. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2007, we had $1.2 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $850.0 million bears interest at a fixed rate averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $303.5 million bears interest at floating rates, which averaged 6.2% on that date. On December 31, 2007, the 30 day LIBOR rate was 4.6%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 would cost us approximately $3.0 million in additional annual interest rates. The fair value of our subordinated debt is based on quoted market prices. The following table presents information on these fair values (in thousands): Carrying Fair Value Value Fixed rate debt: Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 $ 197,602 $ 204,000 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 150,000 147,750 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 6.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 249,556 254,375 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 250,000 251,250 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our business and results of operations together with our present financial condition. This section should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Statements in our discussion may be forward looking. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that a number of factors could cause future production, revenues and expenses to differ materially from our expectations. See Disclosures Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Annual Report and Risk Factors in Item 1A for additional discussion of some of these factors and risks. Items Impacting the Comparability to Prior Year Reports In March 2007, we sold our Gulf of Mexico properties for proceeds of $155.0 million. Accordingly, the financial and statistical data contained in the following discussion for all periods presented reflects the reclassification of our Gulf of Mexico operations to discontinued operations. Overview of Our Business We are an independent oil and gas company engaged in the exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, primarily in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. We operate in one segment. We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Our strategy is to increase reserves and production through internally generated drilling projects coupled with complementary acquisitions. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and gas and on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas activities. Our corporate headquarters are in Fort Worth, Texas. Industry Environment We operate entirely within the United States, a mature region for the exploration and production of oil and gas. As a mature region, while new discoveries of oil and gas occur in the United States, the size and frequency of these discoveries is generally declining, while finding and development costs are increasing. We believe that there remain areas of the United States, such as the Appalachian Basin and certain areas in our Southwest and Gulf Coast Areas, which are underexplored or have not been fully explored and developed with the benefit of newly available exploration, production and reserve enhancement technology. Examples of such technology include advanced 3 D seismic processing, hydraulic reservoir fracture stimulation, advances in well logging and analysis, horizontal drilling and completion techniques, secondary and tertiary recovery practices, and automated remote well monitoring and control devices. Another characteristic of a mature region is the historical exit of larger independent producers and major oil companies from such regions. These companies, searching for ever larger new discoveries, have ventured increasingly overseas and offshore, de emphasizing their onshore United States assets. This movement out of mature basins by larger companies has provided acquisition opportunities for companies like ours that maintain well equipped technical teams capable of generating additional value from these assets. In other situations, to increase cash flow without increasing capital spending, larger independent producers and major integrated oil companies have allowed smaller companies the opportunity to explore and develop reserves on their undeveloped acreage through joint ventures and farm in arrangements. We believe the acquisition market for oil and gas properties has become extremely competitive as producers vie for additional production and expanded drilling opportunities. Acquisition values have reached historic highs and we expect these values to remain high in 2008. In addition, we expect drilling and service costs to remain at a high level in 2008 and for lease operating expenses to continue to rise as producers are forced to make operational enhancements to maintain aging fields. Oil and gas is a commodity. The price that we receive for the natural gas we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand for natural gas in the United States has increased dramatically over the last ten years. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, estimates of gas in storage, weather and other seasonal condition, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Market conditions involving over or under supply of natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile and we expect the volatility to continue in the future. A factor impacting the future supply balance is the recent increase in the United States LNG import capacity. Significant LNG capacity 23 Table of Contents increases have been announced which may result in increased price volatility. A substantial or extended decline in oil and gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and gas reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets. Source of Our Revenues We derive our revenues from the sale of oil and gas that is produced from our properties. Revenues are a function of the volume produced, the prevailing market price at the time of sale, quality, BTU content and transportation costs to market. The price of oil and natural gas is the primary factor affecting our revenues. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to downward price fluctuations, we use derivative instruments to hedge future sales prices on a significant portion of our natural gas and oil production. During 2006 and 2005 the use of derivative instruments prevented us from realizing the full benefit of upward price movements and may continue to do so in future periods. Our realized price calculations include the effects of the settlement of derivative contracts that are accounted for as hedges and the settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges. Principal Components of Our Cost Structure Direct Operating Expenses. These are day to day costs incurred to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market together with the daily costs incurred to maintain our producing properties. Such costs also include workovers and repairs to our oil and gas properties. These costs are expected to remain high in 2008 as the demand for these services continues to increase. Direct operating expenses also include stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. These costs are taxes paid on produced oil and gas based on a percentage of market prices (not at hedged prices) or at fixed rates established by federal, state or local taxing authorities. Exploration Expense. Geological and geophysical costs, including payroll and benefits for the geological and geophysical staff, seismic costs, delay rentals and the costs of unsuccessful exploratory or dry holes. Exploration expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. General and Administrative Expense. Overhead, including payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, costs of managing our production and development operations, audit and other professional fees and legal compliance are included in general and administrative expense. General and administrative expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Interest. We typically finance a portion of our working capital requirements and acquisitions with borrowings under our bank credit facility and with our longer term debt securities. As a result, we incur substantial interest expense that is affected by both fluctuations in interest rates and our financing decisions. We will likely continue to incur significant interest expense as we continue to grow. We expect our 2008 capital budget to be funded primarily with internal cash flow and asset sales. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. The systematic expensing of the capitalized costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop natural gas and oil. As a successful efforts company, we capitalize all costs associated with our acquisition and development efforts and all successful exploration efforts, and apportion these costs to each unit of production through depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. This expense includes the systematic, monthly accretion of the future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. This category also includes unproved property impairment and costs associated with lease expirations. Income Taxes. We are subject to state and federal income taxes but are currently not in a tax paying position for regular federal income taxes, primarily due to the current deductibility of intangible drilling costs (IDC). We do pay some state income taxes where our IDC deductions do not exceed our taxable income or where state income taxes are determined on another basis. Currently, substantially all of our federal taxes are deferred; however, at some point, we anticipate using all of our net operating loss carryforwards and we will recognize current income tax expense and continue to recognize current tax expense as long as we are generating taxable income. 24 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income and Operations Overview of 2007 Results During 2007, we achieved the following results: Achieved 22% production growth and 27% reserve growth; Drilled 698 net wells; Continued expansion of drilling inventory and emerging plays; Posted record financial results and continued balance sheet improvements; and Completed acquisitions of properties containing 133 Bcfe of proved reserves. Our 2007 performance reflects another year of successfully executing our strategy of growth through drilling and complementary acquisitions. The business of exploring for, developing, and acquiring oil and gas is highly competitive and capital intensive. As in any commodity business, the costs associated with finding, acquiring, extracting, and financing the operation are critical to profitability and long term value creation for stockholders. Generating meaningful growth while containing costs presents an ongoing challenge. During periods of historically high oil and gas prices, drilling service and operating cost increases are more prevalent due to increased competition for goods and services. We faced other challenges in 2007 including attracting and retaining qualified personnel, consummating and integrating acquisitions, and accessing the capital markets to fund our growth on sufficiently favorable terms. We have continued to expand and improve the technical staff through the hiring of additional experienced professionals. Our inventory of exploration and development prospects continues to be strong, providing new growth opportunities, greater diversification of technical risk and better efficiency. Total revenues increased 16% in 2007 over the same period of 2006. This increase is due to higher production and higher realized oil and gas prices. Our 2007 production growth is due to the continued success of our drilling program and to acquisitions completed in 2006 and 2007. Realized prices were higher by 18% in 2007. As discussed in Item 1A of this report, significant changes in oil and gas prices can have a significant impact on our balance sheet and our results of operations, including the fair value of our derivatives. Oil and Gas Sales, Production and Realized Price Calculations Our oil and gas sales vary from year to year as a result of changes in commodity prices or volumes of production sold. Hedges realized reflect settlements on those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting. Oil and gas sales increased 44% from 2006 due to a 22% increase in production and an 18% increase in realized prices. Oil and gas sales in 2006 increased 21% from 2005 due to an 18% increase in production and a 3% increase in realized prices. The following table illustrates the primary components of oil and gas sales for each of the last three years (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Oil and Gas Sales Oil wellhead $ 226,686 $ 189,516 $ 156,102 Oil hedges realized (23,755 ) (45,265 ) (42,948 ) Total oil revenue $ 202,931 $ 144,251 $ 113,154 Gas wellhead $ 585,538 $ 466,099 $ 461,132 Gas hedges realized 27,916 (47,916 ) (106,404 ) Total gas revenue $ 613,454 $ 418,183 $ 354,728 NGL $ 46,152 $ 36,705 $ 31,891 NGL hedges realized (4,302 ) Total NGL revenue $ 46,152 $ 36,705 $ 27,589 Combined wellhead $ 858,376 $ 692,320 $ 649,126 Combined hedges 4,161 (93,181 ) (153,655 ) Total oil and gas sales $ 862,537 $ 599,139 $ 495,471 25 Table of Contents Our production continues to grow through continued drilling success and additions from acquisitions. For 2007, our production volumes increased 15% in our Appalachia Area, increased 28% in our Southwest Area and declined 17% in our Gulf Coast Area. For 2006, our production volumes increased 10% in our Appalachia Area, increased 29% in our Southwest Area and declined 36% in our Gulf Coast Area. Our production for each of the last three years is set forth in the following table: 2007 2006 2005 Production Crude oil (bbls) 3,359,668 3,039,150 2,929,013 NGLs (bbls) 1,114,730 1,091,785 1,011,692 Natural gas (mcf) 89,594,626 70,712,770 57,608,816 Total (mcfe) (a) 116,441,014 95,498,380 81,253,046 Average daily production Crude oil (bbls) 9,205 8,326 8,025 NGLs (bbls) 3,054 2,991 2,772 Natural gas (mcf) 245,465 193,734 157,832 Total (mcfe) (a) 319,016 261,639 222,611 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) received for oil and gas during 2007 was $8.02 per mcfe compared to $6.80 per mcfe in 2006 and $6.13 per mcfe in 2005. Our average realized price calculation (including all derivative settlements) includes all cash settlements for derivatives, whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Average price calculations for each of the last three years is shown below: 2007 2006 2005 Average Prices Average sales prices (wellhead): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 67.47 $ 62.36 $ 53.30 NGLs (per bbl) $ 41.40 $ 33.62 $ 31.52 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 6.54 $ 6.59 $ 8.00 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 7.37 $ 7.25 $ 7.99 Average realized prices (including derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 60.40 $ 47.46 $ 38.63 NGLs (per bbl) $ 41.40 $ 33.62 $ 27.27 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 6.85 $ 5.91 $ 6.16 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 7.41 $ 6.27 $ 6.10 Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 60.16 $ 47.46 $ 38.63 NGLs (per bbl) $ 41.40 $ 33.62 $ 27.27 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 7.66 $ 6.62 $ 6.21 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 8.02 $ 6.80 $ 6.13 Average NYMEX prices (b): Oil (per bbl) $ 72.34 $ 66.22 $ 56.56 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 6.92 $ 7.26 $ 8.55 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. (b) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. 26 Table of Contents Derivative fair value income (loss) decreased to a loss of $7.8 million in 2007 compared to a gain of $142.4 million in 2006 and a gain of $10.3 million in 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005, certain of our gas hedges no longer qualified for hedge accounting due to the effect of gas price volatility on the correlation between realized prices and hedge reference prices. Also, as a result of the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, the portion of our derivatives which were designated to our Gulf of Mexico production was marked to market resulting in fair value income of $209,000. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we began marking a portion of our oil hedges designated as Permian Basin production to market due to the anticipated sale of a portion of our Permian properties resulting in derivative fair value loss of $14.7 million. The loss of hedge accounting treatment creates volatility in our revenues as gains and losses from non hedge derivatives are included in total revenues and are not included in our balance sheet in accumulated other compensation loss. As commodity prices increase or decrease such changes will have an opposite effect on the mark to market value of our derivatives. Because oil prices increased dramatically in 2007, our derivatives became comparatively less valuable. However, we expect these losses will be offset by higher wellhead revenues in the future. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, we have also entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting purposes and are marked to market. Hedge ineffectiveness included in this category is associated with our hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The following table presents information about the components of derivative fair value income (loss) for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2007 (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Hedge ineffectiveness realized $ 968 $ $ unrealized (a) (820 ) 5,965 (3,471 ) Change in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for (78,769 ) 86,491 10,868 hedge accounting (a) Realized gain on settlements gas (b) 71,098 49,939 2,906 Realized loss on settlements oil (b) (244 ) Derivative fair value (loss) income $ (7,767 ) $ 142,395 $ 10,303 (a) These amounts are unrealized and are not included in average sales price calculations. (b) These amounts represent realized gains and losses on settled derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting which before settlement have been recognized in the unrealized mark to market component of derivative fair value income (loss). These settlements are included in average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements). Other revenue increased in 2007 to a gain of $5.0 million compared to a gain of $856,000 in 2006 and a gain of $1.0 million in 2005. The 2007 period includes income from equity method investments of $974,000 and other miscellaneous income. The 2006 period includes income from equity method investments of $548,000. The 2005 period includes income of $514,000 from Independent Producer Finance, one of our businesses that no longer operates. Comparison of 2007 and 2006 Expenses Our unit costs have increased as we continue to grow. We believe some of our expense fluctuations should be analyzed on a unit of production, or per mcfe basis. The following table presents information about certain of our expenses on a per mcfe basis for 2007 and 2006: Operating expenses (per mcfe) 2007 2006 Change % Change Direct operating expense $ 0.93 $ 0.85 $ 0.08 9 % Production and ad valorem tax expense 0.36 0.38 (0.02 ) 5 % General and administrative expense 0.59 0.52 0.07 13 % Interest expense 0.67 0.58 0.09 15 % Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense 1.95 1.62 0.33 20 % Direct operating expense for 2007 increased $27.5 million, or 33.8%, to $108.7 million due to higher oilfield service costs, higher volumes and the integration of our recent acquisitions. Our operating expenses are increasing as we add new wells and maintain production from our existing properties. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses were $0.93 and increased $0.08 from 2006 with the increase consisting primarily of higher water disposal costs ($0.02 per mcfe), higher well services and equipment costs ($0.04 per mcfe), higher workover costs ($0.02 per mcfe) and a $0.01 per mcfe increase in stock based compensation. The following table summarizes direct operating expenses per mcfe for 2007 and 2006: 27 Table of Contents % 2007 2006 Change Change Lease operating expense $ 0.85 $ 0.80 $ 0.05 6 % Workovers 0.06 0.04 0.02 50 % Stock based compensation 0.02 0.01 0.01 100 % Total direct operating expenses $ 0.93 $ 0.85 $ 0.08 9 % Production and ad valorem taxes are paid based on market prices and not hedged prices. For 2007, these taxes increased $6.0 million, or 17%, from the same period of the prior year. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes decreased from $0.38 in 2006 to $0.36 in 2007 with lower ad valorem taxes per mcfe due to lower property tax rates in Texas as a result of the new margin tax. General and administrative expense for 2007 increased $18.5 million, or 37%, primarily due to higher salaries and benefits of $9.2 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher office rent and general office expense of $2.3 million ($0.01 per mcfe) and higher stock based compensation of $4.0 million ($0.01 per mcfe). The stock based compensation expense represents amortization of restricted stock grants and stock option/SARs expense under SFAS No. 123(R). On a per mcfe basis, general and administration expense increased from $0.52 in 2006 to $0.59 in 2007. The following table summarizes general and administrative expenses per mcfe for 2007 and 2006: % 2007 2006 Change Change General and administrative $ 0.43 $ 0.37 $ 0.06 16 % Stock based compensation 0.16 0.15 0.01 7 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 0.59 $ 0.52 $ 0.07 13 % Interest expense for 2007 increased $21.9 million, or 39%, to $77.7 million with higher average debt balances and the refinancing of certain debt from short term floating to longer term fixed rates. In September 2007, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 which added $4.8 million of interest costs in 2007. In May 2006, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016 which increased interest expense by $9.1 million in 2007. The proceeds from these issuances were used to retire shorter term lower rate bank debt. In 2007, the average debt outstanding on the bank credit facility was $417.6 million with an average interest rate of 6.4% compared to an average debt outstanding in 2006 of $347.8 million, with an average interest rates of 6.4%. Depletion, depreciation and amortization (DDA) for 2007 increased $72.6 million, or 47%, to $227.3 million, due to higher production and higher depletion rates. Depletion rates increased 16%, or $0.24 per mcfe, due to increased drilling costs and the mix of our production. DDA increased from $1.62 per mcfe in 2006 to $1.95 per mcfe in 2007. For 2008, based on our current reserve base, we expect our DDA rate to average approximately $2.10 per mcfe. The twelve months ended 2007 also includes higher unproved property impairment of $3.0 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher acreage expiration expense of $3.4 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher accretion expense related to asset retirement obligations of $2.3 million ($0.01 per mcfe) and higher depreciation expense of $3.3 million ($0.01 per mcfe). In the fourth quarter of 2006, we lowered our salvage value estimates on our Appalachia wells which increased DDA expense by $4.6 million. Our operating expenses also include other expenses that generally do not trend with production. These expenses include stock based compensation, exploration expense and deferred compensation plan expense. In 2007, stock based compensation of $24.0 million is a component of direct operating expense ($1.8 million), exploration expense ($3.5 million) and general and administrative expense ($18.2 million). In 2006, stock based compensation of $19.1 million is a component of direct operating expense ($1.4 million), exploration expense ($3.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($14.3 million). In 2007 and 2006, this expense represents the amortization of restricted stock grants, stock options and SARs as they become vested. 28 Table of Contents Exploration expense for 2007 decreased $743,000, or 2%, to $43.3 million due to lower seismic costs ($4.3 million) somewhat offset by higher personnel costs. The following table details our exploration related expenses (in thousands): % 2007 2006 Change Change Dry hole expense $ 15,149 $ 15,084 $ 65 Seismic 10,933 15,277 (4,344 ) 28 % Personnel expense 8,924 6,917 2,007 29 % Stock based compensation expense 3,473 3,079 394 13 % Delay rentals and other 4,866 3,731 1,135 30 % Total exploration expense $ 43,345 $ 44,088 $ (743 ) 2 % Deferred compensation plan expense for 2007 increased to $28.3 million, or 312%, from $6.9 million in 2006. This non cash expense relates to the increase or decrease in value of our common stock and other investments held in our deferred compensation plans. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded adjustments that decreased deferred compensation plan expense by $12.4 million. Such adjustments were the result of an incorrect practice of adjusting our deferred compensation liability for market value changes in unvested shares held in our deferred compensation plan. In addition, interest and dividends related to the marketable securities held in the deferred compensation plan were inappropriately recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Of the $12.4 million decrease in deferred compensation expense, $7.1 million is related to periods prior to 2007 and $5.3 million is related to the first three quarters of 2007. Our common stock price increased from $26.34 per share at the end of 2005 to $27.46 per share at the end of 2006 to $51.36 per share at the end of 2007. Income tax expense for 2007 decreased $23.0 million, or 19%, to $98.8 million due to a 16% decrease in income from continuing operations. Our effective tax rate was 37% for 2007 compared to 39% for 2006. The twelve months ended December 31, 2007 includes a non recurring $3.0 million tax benefit related to an increase in the Texas Margin Tax credit carryover. This benefit is related to a change in the Texas law allowing companies to realize tax attributes carrying forward from the previously applicable Texas Franchise tax to the new Texas Margin tax. The twelve months ended December 31, 2006 includes a $2.8 million tax expense for changes in state tax rates. We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 37% for 2008. Given our available net operating loss carryover, we do not expect to pay significant federal income taxes. We received a refund of $299,000 for state income taxes in 2007. Discontinued operations includes the operating results related to our Gulf of Mexico properties and Austin Chalk properties that we sold in the first quarter of 2007. See also Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Comparison of 2006 to 2005 Expenses Our unit costs have increased as we continue to grow. We believe some of our expense fluctuations should be analyzed on a unit of production, or per mcfe basis. The following table presents information about certain of our operating expenses on a per mcfe basis for 2006 and 2005: % Operating expenses (per mcfe) 2006 2005 Change Change Direct operating expense $ 0.85 $ 0.71 $ 0.14 20 % Production and ad valorem tax expense 0.38 0.38 General and administration expense 0.52 0.41 0.11 27 % Interest expense 0.58 0.46 0.12 26 % Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense 1.62 1.41 0.21 15 % Direct operating expense for 2006 increased $23.4 million to $81.3 million due to higher oilfield service costs, higher volumes and the integration of our recent acquisitions. Our operating expenses are increasing as we add new wells and maintain production from our existing properties. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses were $0.85 and increased 20% or $0.14 from 2005 consisting of higher utilities ($0.01 per mcfe), higher water disposal and equipment costs ($0.06 per mcfe) and higher pumper expenses ($0.01 per mcfe). The following table summarizes direct operating expenses per mcfe for 2006 and 2005: 29 Table of Contents % 2006 2005 Change Change Lease operating $ 0.80 $ 0.66 $ 0.14 21 % Workovers 0.04 0.04 % Stock based compensation 0.01 0.01 % Total direct operating expenses $ 0.85 $ 0.71 $ 0.14 20 % Production and ad valorem taxes are paid based on market prices and not hedged prices. For 2006, these taxes increased $5.6 million, or 18%, from the same period of the prior year. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes remained the same at $0.38. General and administrative expense for 2006 increased $16.4 million, or 49%, to 49.9 million, from 2005 due primarily to higher salaries and benefits of $6.0 million ($0.03 per mcfe), higher office rent and general office expenses of $1.0 million ($0.01 per mcfe) and higher stock based compensation expense of $9.4 million ($0.09 per mcfe). The stock based compensation expense represents amortization of restricted stock grants in 2006 and 2005, expense related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006 and the mark to market of SARs granted to employees in 2005. On a per mcfe basis, general and administration expense increased 27% from $0.41 in 2005 to $0.52 in 2006. The following table summarizes general and administrative expenses per mcfe for 2006 and 2005: % 2006 2005 Change Change General and administrative expense $ 0.37 $ 0.35 $ 0.02 6 % Stock based compensation 0.15 0.06 0.09 150 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 0.52 $ 0.41 $ 0.11 27 % Interest expense for 2006 increased $18.2 million, or 48%, to $55.8 million with higher average interest rates, higher average debt balances and the refinancing of certain debt from short term floating to longer term fixed rates. In May 2006, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes which added $9.7 million of interest costs. The proceeds from this issuance were used to retire shorter term bank debt. Average debt outstanding on the bank credit facility was $347.8 million with an average interest rate of 6.4% compared to an average debt outstanding in 2005 of $314.8 million with an average interest rate of 4.5%. Depletion, depreciation and amortization for 2006 increased $40.4 million, or 35%, to $154.7 million due to higher production and higher depletion rates. DDA increased from $1.41 per mcfe in 2005 to $1.62 per mcfe in 2006. This increase is primarily related to our Stroud acquisition, increasing drilling costs and the mix of our production. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we lowered our salvage value estimates on our Appalachia wells which increased DDA expense by $4.6 million. Operating expenses also include stock based compensation, exploration expense and deferred compensation plan expenses that generally do not trend with production. In 2006, stock based compensation expense is a component of direct operating expense ($1.4 million), exploration expense ($3.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($14.3 million) and a $320,000 reduction of gas transportation revenues for a total of $19.1 million. In 2005, stock based compensation is a component of direct operating expense ($480,000), exploration expense ($1.2 million) and general and administrative expense ($4.9 million) and a reduction of $117,000 of gas transportation revenues for a total of $6.7 million. This expense represents the amortization of restricted stock grants in 2006 and 2005, expense related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006 and in 2005, the mark to market of SARs granted to employees. Exploration expense increased 49% to $44.1 million due to higher seismic costs ($2.0 million), higher dry hole costs ($8.5 million) and higher personnel costs. The following table details our exploration related expenses (in thousands): % 2006 2005 Change Change Dry hole expense $ 15,084 $ 6,560 $ 8,524 130 % Seismic 15,277 13,292 1,985 15 % Personnel expense 6,917 5,872 1,045 18 % Stock based compensation expense 3,079 1,250 1,829 146 % Other 3,731 2,555 1,176 46 % Total exploration expense $ 44,088 $ 29,529 $ 14,559 49 % 30 Table of Contents Deferred compensation plan expense for 2006 decreased $22.6 million, or 77%, to $6.9 million. This non cash expense relates to the increase or decrease in value of our common stock and other investments held in our deferred compensation plans. Our common stock price increased from $13.64 per share at the end of 2004 to $26.34 per share at the end of 2005 to $27.46 per share at the end of 2006. Tax expense for 2006 increased $55.9 million, or 85%, to $121.8 million due to a 79% increase in income from continuing operations. Our effective tax rate was 39% for 2006 compared to 37% in 2005. Given our available net operating loss carryforward, we do not expect to pay significant federal income taxes. The twelve months ended December 31, 2006 includes a $2.8 million adjustment for changes in state tax rates. We paid $1.8 million of state taxes in 2006. Discontinued operations for 2006 and 2005 includes the results of operations for our Gulf of Mexico assets which were sold in the first quarter of 2007. Discontinued operations for 2006 also includes the operating results and impairment losses on the Austin Chalk properties which were acquired as part of our 2006 Stroud acquisition. Due to significant price declines after the purchase of these properties and volumes produced since the acquisition, we recognized an impairment of $74.9 million. These properties were also sold in the first quarter of 2007. See also Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Our main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, a committed bank credit facility, asset sales and access to both the debt and equity capital markets. During 2007, our net cash provided from continuing operations of $632.1 million, proceeds from our April 2007 common stock offering of $280.4 million, proceeds from our September 2007 note offering of $250.0 million and proceeds from the sale of assets of $234.3 million were used to fund $1.2 billion of capital expenditures (including acquisitions and equity investments). At December 31, 2007 we had $4.0 million in cash and total assets of $4.0 billion. Our debt to capitalization ratio was 40.0% at December 31, 2007 compared to 45.5% at December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, our total capitalization was as follows (in thousands): 2007 2006 Bank debt $ 303,500 $ 452,000 Senior subordinated notes 847,158 596,782 Total debt 1,150,658 1,048,782 Stockholders equity 1,728,022 1,256,161 Total capitalization $ 2,878,680 $ 2,304,943 Debt to capitalization ratio 40 % 46 % Long term debt at December 31, 2007 totaled $1.2 billion, including $303.5 million of bank credit facility debt and $847.2 million of senior subordinated notes. Our available borrowing capacity at December 31, 2007 was $596.5 million. Cash is required to fund capital expenditures necessary to offset inherent declines in production and reserves which is typical in the oil and gas industry. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on capital resources available and the success of finding or acquiring additional reserves. We believe that net cash generated from operating activities and unused committed borrowing capacity under the bank credit facility combined with our oil and gas price hedges currently in place will be adequate to satisfy near term financial obligations and liquidity needs. However, long term cash flows are subject to a number of variables including the level of production and prices as well as various economic conditions that have historically affected the oil and gas business. A material drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production and reserves would reduce our ability to fund capital expenditures, reduce debt, meet financial obligations and remain profitable. We operate in an environment with numerous financial and operating risks, including, but not limited to, the inherent risks of the search for, development and production of oil and gas, the ability to buy properties and sell production at prices which provide an attractive return and the highly competitive nature of the industry. Our ability to expand our reserve base is, in part, dependent on obtaining sufficient capital through internal cash flow, bank borrowings or the issuance of debt or equity securities. There can be no assurance that internal cash flow and other capital sources will provide sufficient funds to maintain capital expenditures that we believe are necessary to offset inherent declines in production and proved reserves. Bank Debt We maintain a $900.0 million revolving credit facility, which we refer to as our bank debt or our bank credit facility. The bank credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets and matures on October 25, 2012. Availability under the bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base set by the lenders semi annually with an option to set more often in certain circumstances. The borrowing base is dependent on a number of factors, primarily the lenders assessment of future cash flows. Redeterminations of the borrowing base require approval of 75% of the lenders; increases require unanimous approval. 31 Table of Contents At February 20, 2008, the bank credit facility had a $1.5 billion borrowing base and a $900.0 million facility amount. Credit availability is equal to the lesser of the facility amount or the borrowing base resulting in credit availability of $300.5 million on February 20, 2008. The facility amount can be increased to the borrowing base with twenty days notice. Our bank debt and our subordinated notes impose limitations on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments (as defined under the debt agreements for our bank debt and our subordinated notes). Under the bank credit facility, common and preferred dividends are permitted. The terms of each of our subordinated notes limit restricted payments (including dividends) to the greater of $20.0 million or a formula based on earnings and equity issuances since the original issuances of the notes. The 7.5% senior subordinated notes due in 2016 and 2017 also allow for any cash proceeds received within twelve months from the sale of oil and gas properties purchased in an acquisition using stock as consideration to be added to the restricted payment basket. At December 31, 2007, approximately $922.4 million was available under the restricted payment baskets for each of the 7.375% senior subordinated notes, 6.375% senior subordinated notes and the $7.5% senior subordinated notes due in 2017. There was $1.0 billion available under the restricted payment basket for the 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016. The bank credit facility provides for a restricted payment basket of $20.0 million plus 66 2/3% of net cash proceeds from common stock issuances and 50% of net income. Approximately $735.2 million was available under the bank credit facility restricted payment basket as of December 31, 2007. The debt agreements contain customary covenants relating to debt incurrence, working capital, dividends and financial ratios. We were in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2007. Cash Flow Our principal sources of cash are operating cash flow, bank borrowings, asset sales and at times, issuance of debt and equity securities. Our operating cash flow is highly dependent on oil and gas prices. As of December 31, 2007, we had entered into hedging agreements covering 102.1 Bcfe for 2008 and 61.3 Bcfe for 2009. The $808.4 million of cash capital expenditures for 2007, excluding acquisitions, was funded with internal cash flow and proceeds from asset sales. The $1.1 billion capital budget for 2008, which excludes acquisitions, is expected to increase production and to expand the reserve base. Based on current projections, oil and gas futures prices and our hedge position, the 2008 capital program is expected to be funded, primarily with internal cash flow and asset sales. Net cash provided from continuing operations in 2007 was $632.1 million, compared to $441.5 million in 2006 and $288.6 million in 2005. In 2007, cash flow from continuing operations increased due to higher production volumes and higher realized prices partially offset by increasing operating costs. In 2006, cash flow from operations increased due to higher production volumes and prices partially offset by increasing operating, exploration and interest expenses. In 2005, cash flow from operations increased due to higher volumes and prices partially offset by increasing operating costs. Net cash used in investing activities in 2007 was $1.0 billion, compared to $911.7 million in 2006 and $432.4 million in 2005. In 2007, we spent $782.4 million in additions to oil and gas properties, $336.5 million on acquisitions and $94.7 on equity method investments. Also in 2007, we recognized proceeds of $234.3 million from the sale of assets. The 2006 period included $487.2 million in additions to oil and gas properties and $360.1 million of acquisitions. The 2005 period included $266.4 million in additions to oil and gas properties and $153.6 million of acquisitions. Net cash provided from financing activities in 2007 was $379.9 million, compared to $429.4 million in 2006 and $93.0 million in 2005. Historically, sources of financing have been primarily bank borrowings and capital raised through equity and debt offerings. During 2007, we received proceeds of $250.0 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 and proceeds of $280.4 million from a common stock offering. During 2006, we received proceeds of $249.5 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016. During 2005, the outstanding balance under our bank credit facility declined $154.7 million primarily due to the proceeds received from the 6.375% senior subordinated notes due 2017 being applied to our bank debt. During 2005, we also received proceeds of $109.2 million from a common stock offering. Capital Requirements Our primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, repayment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and payment of dividends. During 2007, $820.0 million of capital was expended on drilling projects. Also in 2007, $339.0 million was expended on acquisitions primarily to purchase additional interests in producing properties and unproved acreage. The capital program, excluding acquisitions, was funded by net cash flow from operations and proceeds from asset sales. The 2008 capital budget of $1.1 billion, excluding acquisitions, is expected to be funded primarily by cash flow from operations and asset sales. Development and exploration activities are highly discretionary, and, for the foreseeable future, we expect such activities to be maintained at levels equal to internal cash flow and asset sales. To the extent capital requirements exceed internal cash flow and proceeds from asset sales, debt or equity may be issued to fund these requirements. We currently believe we have sufficient liquidity and cash flow to meet our obligations for the next twelve months; however, a drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production or reserves could adversely affect our 32 Table of Contents ability to fund capital expenditures and meet our financial obligations. Also, our obligations may change due to acquisitions, divestitures and continued growth. We may issue additional shares of stock, subordinated notes or other debt securities to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, extend maturities or to repay debt. Cash Dividend Payments The amount of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and primarily depends on earnings and capital expenditures. In 2007, we paid $19.1 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.03 per share in the third, second and first quarters). In 2006, we paid $12.2 million in dividends to our common stockholders ($0.03 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.02 per share in the third, second and first quarters). In 2005, we paid $7.6 million in dividends to our common stockholders ($0.0133 per share in the second and third quarters and $0.02 per share in the fourth quarter). Also in 2005, we paid $2.2 million in preferred stock dividends. Future Commitments In addition to our capital expenditure program, we are committed to making cash payments in the future on two types of contracts: note agreements and operating leases. As of December 31, 2007, we do not have any capital leases nor have we entered into any material long term contracts for equipment. As of December 31, 2007, we do not have any significant off balance sheet debt or other such unrecorded obligations and we have not guaranteed the debt of any other party. The table below provides estimates of the timing of future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place at December 31, 2007. In addition to the contractual obligations listed on the table below, our balance sheet at December 31, 2007 reflects accrued interest payable on our bank debt of $739,000 which is payable in the first quarter of 2008. We expect to make annual interest payments of $14.8 million per year on our 7.375% senior subordinated notes, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016, $9.6 million per year on our 6.375% senior subordinated notes and $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017. The following summarizes our contractual financial obligations at December 31, 2007 and their future maturities. We expect to fund these contractual obligations with cash generated from operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility and proceeds from asset sales. Payment due by period 2009 and 2011 and 2008 2010 2012 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Bank debt due 2012 $ $ $ 303,500 (a) $ $ 303,500 7.375% senior subordinated notes due 2013 200,000 200,000 6.375% senior subordinated notes due 2015 150,000 150,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016 250,000 250,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 250,000 250,000 Operating leases 9,657 19,221 12,801 8,568 50,247 Seismic agreements 500 300 800 Derivative obligations (b) 30,457 45,819 76,276 Asset retirement obligation liability 1,903 9,816 2,538 61,051 75,308 Total contractual obligations (c) $ 42,517 $ 75,156 $ 318,839 $ 919,619 $ 1,356,131 (a) Due at termination date of our bank credit facility. We expect to renew our bank credit facility, but there is no assurance that can be accomplished. Interest paid on our bank credit facility would be approximately $28.0 million each year assuming no change in the interest rate or outstanding balance. (b) Derivative obligations represent net open derivative contracts valued as of December 31, 2007. While such payments will be funded by higher prices received from the sale of our production, production receipts may be received after our payments to counterparties which can result in borrowings under our bank credit facility. (c) This table excludes the liability for the deferred compensation plans since these obligations will be funded with existing plan assets. Hedging Oil and Gas Prices We enter into derivative agreements to reduce the impact of oil and gas price volatility. At December 31, 2007, swaps were in place covering 71.3 Bcf of gas at prices averaging $8.82 per mcf. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas at weighted average floor and cap prices of $8.07 to $9.73 and 6.2 million barrels of oil at weighted average floor and cap prices of $61.54 to $75.72. The derivative fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized or payable on termination, based on a comparison of the contract price and a reference price, generally NYMEX, approximated a pretax loss of $22.3 million at December 31, 2007. The contracts expire monthly through December 2009. Settled transaction gains and 33 Table of Contents losses for derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are determined monthly and are included as increases or decreases on oil and gas sales in the period the hedged production is sold. Oil and gas sales included realized hedging gains of $4.2 million in 2007 compared to losses of $93.2 million in 2006 and losses of $153.7 million in 2005. Unrealized effective gains and losses on derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are recorded at an estimate of fair value based on a comparison of the contract price and a reference price, generally NYMEX, on our consolidated balance sheet as accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity. At December 31, 2007, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Average Hedge Price Natural Gas 2008 Swaps 155,000 Mmbtu/day $8.97 2008 Collars 70,000 Mmbtu/day $8.01 $10.83 2009 Swaps 40,000 Mmbtu/day $8.24 2009 Collars 80,000 Mmbtu/day $8.12 $8.76 Crude Oil 2008 Collars 9,000 bbl/day $59.34 $75.48 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $64.01 $76.00 Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are effective as economic hedges of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method the contracts are carried at their fair value on our consolidated balance sheet under the captions Unrealized derivative gains and Unrealized derivative losses. We recognize all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts in our consolidated statement of operations in the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). As of the fourth quarter of 2005, certain of our gas derivatives no longer qualified for hedge accounting and are marked to market. Also, as a result of the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, a portion of derivatives which were designated to our Gulf Coast production was marked to market. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we began marking a portion of our oil hedges designated as Permian production to market due to the anticipated sale of a portion of our Permian properties. Derivatives that no longer qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method described above. As of December 31, 2007, hedges on 64.0 Bcfe no longer qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting. During the third and fourth quarter of 2007, in addition to the swaps and collars above, we entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify as hedges for hedge accounting purposes and are marked to market. The price we receive for our production can be less than NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net unrealized pre tax gain of $145,000 at December 31, 2007. Interest Rates At December 31, 2007, we had $1.2 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $850.0 million bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $303.5 million bears interest at floating rates, which averaged 6.2% at year end 2007. The 30 day LIBOR rate on December 31, 2007 was 4.6%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 would cost us approximately $3.0 million in additional annual interest. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently utilize any off balance sheet arrangements to enhance our liquidity or capital resource position, or for any other purpose. Inflation and Changes in Prices Our revenues, the value of our assets and our ability to obtain bank loans or additional capital on attractive terms have been and will continue to be affected by changes in oil and gas prices and the costs to produce our reserves. Oil and gas prices are subject to significant fluctuations that are beyond our ability to control or predict. Although certain of our costs and expenses are affected by general inflation, inflation does not normally have a significant effect on our business. In a trend that began in 2004 and accelerated through 2007, commodity prices for oil and gas increased significantly. The higher prices have 34 Table of Contents led to increased activity in the industry and, consequently, rising costs. These cost trends have put pressure not only on our operating costs but also on our capital costs. We expect these costs to remain high for 2008. The following table indicates the average oil and gas prices received over the last five years and quarterly for 2007, 2006 and 2005. Average price calculations exclude all derivative settlements whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Oil is converted to natural gas equivalent at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Average Sales Prices (Wellhead) Average NYMEX Prices (a) Equivalent Oil Natural Gas (Per Mcf Oil Natural Gas (Per bbl) mcf) (Per mcfe) (Per bbl) (Per mcf) Annual 2007 $ 67.47 $ 6.54 $ 7.37 $ 72.34 $ 6.92 2006 62.36 6.59 7.25 66.22 7.26 2005 53.30 8.00 7.99 56.56 8.55 2004 39.20 5.80 5.79 41.41 6.09 2003 28.23 5.03 4.85 31.04 5.44 Quarterly 2007 First $ 56.01 $ 6.41 $ 6.88 $ 58.27 $ 6.96 Second 62.20 6.95 7.57 65.03 7.56 Third 70.51 5.97 7.01 75.38 6.13 Fourth 82.12 6.80 7.94 90.68 7.03 2006 First $ 59.74 $ 8.33 $ 8.41 $ 63.48 $ 9.07 Second 65.36 6.28 7.17 70.70 6.82 Third 64.53 6.12 7.00 70.48 6.53 Fourth 59.80 5.91 6.58 60.21 6.62 2005 First $ 47.01 $ 5.98 $ 6.25 $ 49.84 $ 6.32 Second 48.72 6.41 6.65 53.17 6.80 Third 59.94 7.88 8.16 63.19 8.25 Fourth 56.38 11.30 10.54 60.02 12.85 (a) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. Managements Discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable; however, actual results may differ. Certain accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (a) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the level of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to changes; and (b) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Oil and Gas Properties Proved reserves are defined by the SEC as those volumes of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed reserves are volumes expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Although our engineers are knowledgeable of and follow the guidelines 35 Table of Contents for reserves established by the SEC, the estimation of reserves requires engineers to make a significant number of assumptions based on professional judgment. Reserve estimates are updated at least annually and consider recent production levels and other technical information. Estimated reserves are often subject to future revisions, which could be substantial, based on the availability of additional information, including: reservoir performance, new geological and geophysical data, additional drilling, technological advancements, price and cost changes and other economic factors. Changes in oil and gas prices can lead to a decision to start up or shut in production, which can lead to revisions to reserve quantities. Reserve revisions in turn cause adjustments in the depletion rates used by us. We cannot predict what reserve revisions may be required in future periods. Reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering who reports directly to our Chief Operating Officer. To further ensure the reliability of our reserve estimates, we engage independent petroleum consultants to review our estimates of proved reserves. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. The following table sets forth a summary of the percent of reserves which were reviewed by independent petroleum consultants for each of the years ended 2007, 2006 and 2005. Audited (a) 2007 2006 2005 86% 87% 84% (a) Audited reserves are those reserves estimated by our employees and reviewed by an independent petroleum consultant. We use the successful efforts method to account for exploration and development expenditures. Unsuccessful exploration drilling costs are expensed and can have a significant effect on reported operating results. Successful exploration drilling costs and all development costs are capitalized and systematically charged to expense using the units of production method based on proved developed oil and gas reserves as estimated by our engineers and reviewed by independent engineers. Costs incurred for exploratory wells that find reserves that cannot yet be classified as proved are capitalized on our balance sheet if (a) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and (b) we are making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Proven property leasehold costs are charged to expense using the units of production method based on total proved reserves. Properties are assessed for impairment as circumstances warrant (at least annually) and impairments to value are charged to expense. The successful efforts method inherently relies upon the estimation of proved reserves, which includes proved developed and proved undeveloped volumes. We adhere to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies, for recognizing any impairment of capitalized costs to unproved properties. The greatest portion of these costs generally relate to the acquisition of leasehold costs. The costs are capitalized and periodically evaluated (at least quarterly) as to recoverability, based on changes brought about by economic factors and potential shifts in business strategy employed by management. We consider a combination of time, geologic and engineering factors to evaluate the need for impairment of these costs. Unproved properties had a net book value of $271.4 million in 2007 compared to $226.2 million in 2006 and $28.5 million in 2005. Depletion rates are determined based on reserve quantity estimates and the capitalized costs of producing properties. As the estimated reserves are adjusted, the depletion expense for a property will change, assuming no change in production volumes or the capitalized costs. Estimated reserves are used as the basis for calculating the expected future cash flows from a property, which are used to determine whether that property may be impaired. Reserves are also used to estimate the supplemental disclosure of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil and gas producing activities and reserve quantities in Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements. Changes in the estimated reserves are considered in estimates for accounting purposes and are reflected on a prospective basis. We monitor our long lived assets recorded in property, plant and equipment in our consolidated balance sheet to ensure they are fairly presented. We must evaluate our properties for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset could exceed its fair value. A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these evaluations since the results are based on estimated future events. Such events include a projection of future oil and natural gas sales prices, an estimate of the ultimate amount of recoverable oil and gas reserves that will be produced from a field, the timing of future production, future production costs, future abandonment costs, and future inflation. The need to test a property for impairment can be based on several factors, including a significant reduction in sales prices for oil and or gas, unfavorable adjustment to reserves, physical damage to production equipment and facilities, a change in costs, or other changes to contracts, environmental regulations or tax laws. All of these factors must be considered when testing a propertys carrying value for impairment. We cannot predict whether impairment charges may be required in the future. 36 Table of Contents We are required to develop estimates of fair value to allocate purchase prices paid to acquire businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price paid to acquire a business is allocated to its assets and liabilities based on the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. We use all available information to make these fair value determinations. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for information on these acquisitions. Oil and Gas Derivatives We enter into derivative contracts to mitigate our exposure to commodity price risk associated with future oil and natural gas production. These contracts have historically consisted of options, in the form of collars, and fixed price swaps. Under SFAS No. 133, every derivative instrument is required to be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or a liability measured at its fair value. If the derivative does not qualify as a hedge or is not designated as a hedge, the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized currently in earnings. If the derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (equity) to the extent that the hedge is effective and in the income statement to the extent it is ineffective. Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are effective as economic hedges of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method, the contracts are carried at their fair value on our consolidated balance sheet under the captions Unrealized derivative assets and Unrealized derivative liabilities. We recognize all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts on our consolidated statement of operations under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). As of the fourth quarter of 2005, certain of our gas derivatives no longer qualified for hedge accounting due to the effect of volatility of gas prices on the correlation between realized prices and hedge reference prices. Also, as a result of the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, the portion of derivatives which were designated to our Gulf Coast production no longer qualified for hedge accounting resulting in derivative fair value income of $209,000. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we began marking a portion of our oil hedges designated as Permian production to market due to the anticipated sale of a portion of our Permian properties resulting in derivative fair value loss of $14.7 million. These derivatives that no longer qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133 are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method described above. During the third and fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify as hedges for hedge accounting and are also marked to market. The price we receive for our gas production can be less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location, or basis, relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreement that effectively fix our basis adjustments. While there is a risk that the financial benefit of rising oil and gas prices may not be captured, we believe the benefits of stable and predictable cash flow are more important. Among these benefits are a more efficient utilization of existing personnel and planning for future staff additions, the flexibility to enter into long term projects requiring substantial committed capital, smoother and more efficient execution of our ongoing development drilling and production enhancement programs, more consistent returns on invested capital, and better access to bank and other credit markets. Asset Retirement Obligations We have significant obligations to remove tangible equipment and restore land at the end of oil and gas production operations. Removal and restoration obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells. Estimating the future asset removal costs is difficult and requires us to make estimates and judgments because most of the removal obligations are many years in the future and contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what constitutes removal. Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are regulatory, political, environmental, safety and public relations considerations. Inherent in the fair value calculation are numerous assumptions and judgments including the ultimate retirement costs, inflation factors, credit adjusted discount rates, timing of retirement, and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and political environments. To the extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present value of the existing asset retirement obligation, (ARO), a corresponding adjustment is made to the oil and gas property balance. In addition, increases in the discounted ARO liability resulting from the passage of time are reflected as accretion expense, a component of depletion, depreciation and amortization in our consolidated statement of operations. Due to the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in the first quarter of 2007, our ARO liability decreased $20.0 million. 37 Table of Contents Deferred Taxes We are subject to income and other taxes in all areas in which we operate. When recording income tax expense, certain estimates are required because income tax returns are generally filed many months after the close of a calendar year, tax returns are subject to audit which can take years to complete and future events often impact the timing of when income tax expenses and benefits are recognized. We have deferred tax assets relating to tax operating loss carryforwards and other deductible differences. We routinely evaluate deferred tax assets to determine the likelihood of realization. A valuation allowance is recognized on deferred tax assets when we believe that certain of these assets are not likely to be realized. In determining deferred tax liabilities, accounting rules require OCI to be considered, even though such income or loss has not yet been earned. At year end 2006, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $468.6 million, with $21.3 million of deferred tax liabilities related to unrealized deferred hedging gains included in OCI. At year end 2007, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $563.9 million, with $16.3 million of deferred tax assets related to unrealized hedging losses included in OCI. We may be challenged by taxing authorities over the amount and or timing of recognition of revenues and deductions in our various income tax returns. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for all taxes, gains or losses could occur in the future due to changes in estimates or resolution of outstanding tax matters. Contingent Liabilities A provision for legal, environmental and other contingent matters is charged to expense when the loss is probable and the cost or range of cost can be reasonably estimated. Judgment is often required to determine when expenses should be recorded for legal, environmental and contingent matters. In addition, we often must estimate the amount of such losses. In many cases, our judgment is based on the input of our legal advisors and on the interpretation of laws and regulations, which can be interpreted differently by regulators and or the courts. We monitor known and potential legal, environmental and other contingent matters and make our best estimate of when to record losses for these matters based on available information. Although we continue to monitor all contingencies closely, particularly our outstanding litigation, we currently have no material accruals for contingent liabilities. Revenue Recognition Oil, gas and natural gas liquids are recognized when the products are sold and delivery to the purchaser has occurred. We use the sales method the account for gas imbalances, recognizing revenue based on gas delivered rather than our working interest share of gas produced. Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measure at fair value. It requires that unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected be recorded in net income. The statement also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. For us, SFAS No. 159 will be effective January 1, 2008, and retrospective application is not permitted. Should we elect to apply the fair value option to any eligible items that exist at January 1, 2008, the effect of the first remeasurement to fair value would be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We will adopt SFAS No. 159 as of January 1, 2008 and the impact of the adoption will result in a reclassification of a $2.0 million pre tax loss related to our investment securities from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement. This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements but may require some entities to change their measurement practices. For us, SFAS No. 157 will be effective January 1, 2008. We have not yet determined whether SFAS No. 157 will have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. However, we believe we will be required to provide additional disclosures as part of future financial statements, beginning with the first quarter of 2008. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) replaces SFAS No. 141. The statement retains the purchase method of accounting for acquisitions, but requires a number of changes, including changes in the way assets and liabilities are recognized in the purchase accounting. It changes the recognition of 38 Table of Contents assets acquired and liabilities assumed arising from contingencies, requires the capitalization of in process research and development at fair value, and requires the expensing of acquisition related costs as incurred. The statement will apply prospectively to business combinations occurring in our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2009. We are currently evaluating provisions of this statement. ITEM 7A. QUANTITIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil and gas prices and interest rates. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposure. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. All accounts are US dollar denominated. Market Risk Our major market risk is exposure to oil and gas prices. Realized prices are primarily driven by worldwide prices for oil and spot market prices for North American gas production. Oil and gas prices have been volatile and unpredictable for many years. Commodity Price Risk We periodically enter into derivative arrangements with respect to our oil and gas production. These arrangements are intended to reduce the impact of oil and gas price fluctuations. Certain of our derivatives are swaps where we receive a fixed price for our production and pay market prices to the counterparty. Our derivatives program also includes collars which assume a minimum floor price and a predetermined ceiling price. Historically, we applied hedge accounting to derivatives utilized to manage price risk associated with our oil and gas production. Accordingly, we recorded change in the fair value of our swap and collar contracts, including changes associated with time value, under the caption, Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and into oil and gas sales when the forecasted sale of production occurs. Any hedge ineffectiveness associated with contracts qualifying for and designated as a cash flow hedge is reported currently each period under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss) in our consolidated statement of operations. Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are effective as economic hedges of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method, the contracts are carried at their fair value on our consolidated balance sheet under the captions Unrealized derivative gains and Unrealized derivative losses. We recognize all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts in our consolidated statement of operations under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). Generally, derivative losses occur when market prices increase, which are offset by gains on the underlying physical commodity transaction. Conversely, derivative gains occur when market prices decrease, which are offset by losses on the underlying commodity transaction. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had oil and gas swaps in place covering 71.3 Bcf of gas. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas and 6.2 million barrels of oil. These contracts expire monthly through December 2009. The fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized upon immediate liquidation as of December 31, 2007, approximated a net unrealized pre tax loss of $22.3 million. At December 31, 2007, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Average Hedge Price Fair Market Value (in thousands) Natural Gas 2008 Swaps 155,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.97 $ 64,982 2008 Collars 55,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.01 $10.83 $ 19,288 2009 Swaps 40,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.24 $ (3,812 ) 2009 Collars 80,000 Mmbtu/day $ 8.12 $8.76 $ (3,070 ) Crude Oil 2008 Collars 9,000 bbl/day $ 59.34 $75.48 $ (59,624 ) 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $ 64.01 $76.00 $ (40,085 ) 39 Table of Contents Other Commodity Risk We are impacted by basis risk, caused by factors that affect the relationship between commodity futures prices reflected in derivative commodity instruments and the cash market price of the underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices experienced in local markets. If commodity price changes in one region are not reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased basis risk. In addition to the collars and swaps above, during the third and fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting purpose and are marked to market. The price we receive for our gas production can be less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net realized pre tax gain of $145,000 at December 31, 2007. In 2007, a 10% reduction in oil and gas prices, excluding amounts fixed through hedging transactions, would have reduced revenue by $85.4 million. If oil and gas futures prices at December 31, 2007 had declined by 10%, the unrealized hedging gain at that date would have increased $137.9 million. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2007, we had $1.2 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $850.0 million bears interest at a fixed rate averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $303.5 million bears interest at floating rates, which averaged 6.2% on that date. On December 31, 2007, the 30 day LIBOR rate was 4.6%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 would cost us approximately $3.0 million in additional annual interest rates. The fair value of our subordinated debt is based on quoted market prices. The following table presents information on these fair values (in thousands): Carrying Fair Value Value Fixed rate debt: Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 $ 197,602 $ 204,000 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 150,000 147,750 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 6.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 249,556 254,375 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 250,000 251,250 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) 
 
