Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Production Gas (Mmcf) 114,323 89,595 70,713 Crude oil (Mbbls) 3,084 3,360 3,039 Natural gas liquids (Mbbls) 1,386 1,115 1,092 Total (Mmcfe) (a) 141,145 116,441 95,498 Oil and gas revenues ($000) Gas $ 931,721 $ 613,454 $ 418,183 Crude oil 226,347 202,931 144,251 Natural gas liquids 68,492 46,152 36,705 Total oil and gas revenues $ 1,226,560 $ 862,537 $ 599,139 Average sales prices (wellhead) Gas (per mcf) $ 8.07 $ 6.54 $ 6.59 Crude oil (per bbl) 96.77 67.47 62.36 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 49.43 41.40 33.62 Total (per mcfe) (a) 9.14 7.37 7.25 Average realized prices (including derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting): Gas (per mcf) $ 8.15 $ 6.85 $ 5.91 Crude oil (per bbl) 73.38 60.40 47.46 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 49.43 41.40 33.62 Total (per mcfe) (a) 8.69 7.41 6.27 Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements) Gas (per mcf) $ 8.15 $ 7.66 $ 6.62 Crude oil (per bbl) 68.20 60.16 47.46 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 49.43 41.40 33.62 Total (per mcfe) (a) 8.58 8.02 6.80 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. Employees As of January 1, 2009, we had 835 full time employees, 420 of whom were field personnel. All full time employees are eligible to receive equity awards approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. No employees are covered by a labor union or other collective bargaining arrangement. We believe that the relationship with our employees is excellent. We regularly use independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services, particularly in the areas of drilling, completion, field, on site production operation services and certain accounting functions. 4 Table of Contents Available Information We maintain an internet website under the name www.rangeresources.com. We make available, free of charge, on our website, the annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after providing such reports to the SEC. Also, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Dividend Committee, and the Governance and Nominating Committee, and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on our website and in print to any stockholder who provides a written request to the Corporate Secretary at 100 Throckmorton Street, Suite 1200, Fort Worth, Texas 76102. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all directors, officers and employees, including the chief executive officer and senior financial officer. We file annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. Also, the SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Range, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any document we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this report or any other filing that we make with the SEC. Competition We encounter substantial competition in developing and acquiring oil and gas properties, securing and retaining personnel, conducting drilling and field operations and marketing production. Competitors in exploration, development, acquisitions and production include the major oil companies as well as numerous independent oil companies, individual proprietors and others. Although our sizable acreage position and core area concentration provide some competitive advantages, many competitors have financial and other resources substantially exceeding ours. Therefore, competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources allow. Our ability to replace and expand our reserve base depends on our ability to attract and retain quality personnel and identify and acquire suitable producing properties and prospects for future drilling. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Marketing and Customers We market the majority of our oil and gas production from the properties we operate for both our interest and that of the other working interest owners and royalty owners. We sell our gas pursuant to a variety of contractual arrangements, generally month to month and one to five year contracts. Less than 10% of our production is subject to contracts longer than five years. Pricing on the month to month and short term contracts is based largely on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) pricing, with fixed or floating basis. For one to five year contracts, we sell our gas on NYMEX pricing, published regional index pricing or percentage of proceeds sales based on local indices. We sell less than 400 mcf per day under long term fixed price contracts. Many contracts contain provisions for periodic price adjustment, redetermination and other terms customary in the industry. We sell our gas to utilities, marketing companies and industrial users. We sell our oil under contracts ranging in terms from month to month, up to as long as one year. The pricing for oil is based upon the posted prices set by major purchasers in the production area, reporting publications, or upon NYMEX pricing or fixed pricing. All oil pricing is adjusted for quality and transportation differentials. Oil and gas purchasers are selected on the basis of price, credit quality and service reliability. For a summary of purchasers of our oil and gas production that accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenue, see Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. Because alternative purchasers of oil and gas are usually readily available, we believe that the loss of any of these purchasers would not have a material adverse effect on us. We enter into hedging transactions with unaffiliated third parties for significant portions of our production to achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to short term fluctuations in oil and gas prices. For a more detailed discussion, see the information set forth in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Proximity to local markets, availability of competitive fuels and overall supply and demand are factors affecting the prices for which our production can be sold. Market volatility due to international political developments, overall energy supply and demand, fluctuating weather conditions, economic growth rates and other factors in the United States and worldwide have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on energy prices. We incur gathering and transportation expenses to move our natural gas and crude oil from the wellhead and tanks to purchaser specified delivery points. These expenses vary based on volume, distance shipped and the fee charged by the third party transporters. In the Southwestern and Gulf Coast Areas, our gas and oil production is transported primarily through third party trucks, field gathering systems and transmission pipelines. Transportation capacity on these gathering systems and 5 Table of Contents pipelines is occasionally constrained. In Appalachia, we own approximately 5,255 miles of gas gathering pipelines, which transport both a majority of our Appalachian gas production and third party gas to transmission lines and directly to end users, and interstate pipelines. For additional information, see Risk Factors Our business depends on oil and gas transportation facilities, many of which are owned by others, in Item 1A of this report. Governmental Regulation Our operations are substantially affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations. In particular, oil and gas production and related operations are, or have been, subject to price controls, taxes and numerous other laws and regulations. All of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate producing crude oil and natural gas properties have statutory provisions regulating the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas, including provisions related to permits for the drilling of wells, bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, and the abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells which may be drilled in an area, and the unitization or pooling of crude oil and natural gas wells, as well as regulations that generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individual wells. In August 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005). Among other matters, the EPAct 2005 amends the Natural Gas Act (NGA), to make it unlawful for any entity, including otherwise non jurisdictional producers such as Range, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), in contravention of rules prescribed by the FERC. On January 20, 2006, the FERC issued rules implementing this provision. The rules make it unlawful in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit any such statement necessary to make the statements not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1,000,000 per day per violation. The new anti manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non jurisdictional sale or gathering, but does apply to activities or otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction. It therefore reflects a significant expansion of FERCs enforcement authority. Range does not anticipate it will be affected any differently than other producers of natural gas. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, such laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil and gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the FERC, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. On December 26, 2007, FERC issued a final rule on the annual natural gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing (Order 704). Under Order 704, wholesale buyers and sellers of more than 2.2 million MMBtus of physical natural gas in the previous calendar year, including natural gas gatherers and marketers, are now required to report, on May 1 of each year beginning in 2009, aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to the formation of price indices. It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. Order 704 also requires market participants to indicate whether they report prices to any index publishers, and if so, whether their reporting complies with FERCs policy statement on price reporting. On November 20, 2008, FERC issued a final rule on the daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements (Order 720). Under Order 720, major non interstate pipelines, defined as certain non interstate pipelines delivering, on an annual basis, more than an average of 50 million MMBtus of gas over the previous three calendar years, are required to post daily certain information regarding the pipelines capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has a design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. Requests for clarification and rehearing of Order 720 have been filed at FERC and a decision on those requests is pending. 6 Table of Contents Environmental and Occupational Matters Our operations are subject to numerous stringent federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection, some of which carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, production and transporting through pipelines, govern the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, limit or prohibit drilling activities in certain areas and on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier and other protected areas, require some form of remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen pits and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations or failure to comply with regulatory filings. In addition, these laws and regulations may restrict the rate of production. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (CERCLA), also known as the Superfund law, and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons may include owners or operators of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, all of these persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties, pursuant to environmental statutes, common law or both, to file claims for personal injury and property damages allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants into the environment. Although petroleum, including crude oil and natural gas, is not a hazardous substance under CERCLA, at least two courts have ruled that certain wastes associated with the production of crude oil may be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA and that releases of such wastes may therefore give rise to liability under CERCLA. While we generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances, we have not received notification that we may be potentially responsible for cleanup costs under CERCLA or comparable state laws. Other state laws regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes, and new state and federal legislative initiatives that could have a significant impact on us may periodically be proposed and enacted. We also may incur liability under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended (RCRA), which imposes requirements related to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. While there is an exclusion from the definition of hazardous wastes for drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy, these wastes may be regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or state agencies as non hazardous solid waste. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils, can be regulated as hazardous wastes. Although the costs of managing wastes classified as hazardous waste may be significant, we do not expect to experience more burdensome costs than similarly situated companies. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other locations where such materials have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes was not under our control. These properties and the materials disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state laws and regulations. Under such laws and regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), and comparable state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other oil and gas wastes, into federal and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or the state. These laws and any implementing regulations provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for any unauthorized discharges of oil and other substances in reportable quantities and may impose substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and maintain approvals or permits for the discharge of wastewater or storm water and are required to develop and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans, also referred to as SPCC plans, in connection with on site storage of greater than threshold quantities of oil. We are currently undertaking a review of recently acquired oil and gas properties to determine the need for new or updated SPCC plans and, where necessary, we will be developing or upgrading such plans, the costs of which are not expected to be substantial. 7 Table of Contents The Clean Air Act, as amended, and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including compressor stations. These laws and any implementing regulations may require us to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent air permit requirements, or use specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. While we may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next few years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits addressing other air emission related issues, we do not believe that such requirements will have a material adverse effect on our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations sometimes occur, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements for any substances used or produced in our operations could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those of the oil and gas industry in general. For instance, recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and more than one third of the states, either individually or through multi state initiatives already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. As an alternative to reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, the Congress may consider the implementation of a program to tax the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. Also, the U.S. Supreme Courts holding in its 2007 decision, Massachusetts, et. al. v. EPA, that carbon dioxide may be regulated as an air pollutant under the federal Clean Air Act could result in future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources, even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. In July 2008, EPA released an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. Although the notice did not propose any specific new regulatory requirements for greenhouse gases, it indicates that federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could occur in the near future. It is possible that new laws or regulations could establish a greenhouse cap and trade program, whereby major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries or gas processing plants, would be required to acquire and surrender emission allowances. While we do not operate stationary sources that emit significant quantities of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, we do utilize gas processing plants to process the natural gas that we produce and, thus if such processors were to incur increased costs to acquire and surrender emission allowances or otherwise to capture and dispose of greenhouse gases, it is possible that these costs, which might be significant, could be passed along to us as well as similarly situated producers. Moreover, any adoption of a program to tax the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases potentially could be imposed on us and other similarly situated producers of natural gas. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business or demand for our products. Given the possible impact of legislation and or regulation of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, we have considered and expect to continue to consider the impact of laws or regulations intended to address climate change on our operations. We do not believe our operations require reporting or monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions under existing laws and regulations; however, we do operate mobile equipment in the normal course of our business that emits carbon dioxide as well as some stationary engines that power compressors and pumping equipment. Methane is a primary constituent of natural gas and, like all oil and gas exploration and production companies, we produce significant quantities of natural gas; however, such production of natural gas, including its constituent hydrocarbon including methane, is gathered and transported in pipelines under pressure and we therefore do not emit significant quantities of methane in connection with our operations. Given our lack of significant points of carbon dioxide emissions, we have focused most of our efforts on physical environmental ground, water and air issues in our operations We are also subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended (OSHA), and comparable state laws that regulate the protection of the health and safety of employees. In addition, OSHAs hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with the OSHA requirements. In summary, we believe we are in substantial compliance with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with environmental requirements, there is no assurance that this will continue. We did not have any material capital or other non recurring expenditures in connection with complying with environmental laws or environmental remediation matters in 2008, nor do we anticipate that such expenditures will be material in 2009. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. Risks Related to Our Business Volatility of oil and gas prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources and could hamper our ability to produce oil and gas economically 8 Table of Contents Oil and gas prices are volatile, and a decline in prices adversely affects our profitability and financial condition. Higher oil and gas prices have contributed to our positive earnings over the last several years. The oil and gas industry is typically cyclical, and prices for oil and gas have been highly volatile. Historically, the industry has experienced severe downturns characterized by oversupply and or weak demand. Long term supply and demand for oil and gas is uncertain and subject to a myriad of factors such as: the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; the price and availability of alternative fuels; weather conditions; the level of consumer demand; the price of foreign imports; worldwide economic conditions; the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities and processing facilities; the effect of worldwide energy conservation efforts; political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes. The recent decreases in oil and gas prices have adversely affected our revenues, net income, cash flow and proved reserves. Significant price decreases could have a material adverse effect on our operations and limit our ability to fund capital expenditures. Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves and production. Sustained decreases in oil and gas prices will further adversely affect our revenues, net income, cash flows, proved reserves and our ability to fund capital expenditures. Information concerning our reserves and future net reserve estimates is uncertain There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved reserves are by their nature uncertain. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could be material. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of oil and gas reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated: the amount and timing of oil and gas production; the revenues and costs associated with that production; and the amount and timing of future development expenditures. The discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves included in this report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based generally on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general. If oil and gas prices decrease or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to record write downs of our oil and gas properties We have been in the past and were in 2008, required to write down the carrying value of certain of our oil and gas properties, and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional write downs in the future. Writedowns may occur when oil and gas prices are low, or if we have downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our 9 Table of Contents estimates of operating or development costs, deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where the cost to redrill or repair does not justify the expense. Accounting rules require that the carrying value of oil and gas properties be periodically reviewed for possible impairment. Impairment is recognized when the book value of a proven property is greater than the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that property and on acreage when conditions indicate the carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required to write down the carrying value of a property based on oil and gas prices at the time of the impairment review, or as a result of continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data, economics and other factors. While an impairment charge reflects our long term ability to recover an investment, it does not impact cash or cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce our reported earnings and increases our leverage ratios. Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flow from operations, our bank credit facility and debt and equity issuances. From time to time, we have also engaged in asset monetization transactions. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and gas and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If our access to capital were limited due to numerous factors which could include a decrease in revenues due to lower gas and oil prices or decreased production or deterioration of the credit and capital markets, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves. We may not be able to incur additional bank debt, issue debt or equity, engage in asset monetization or access other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet our reserve replacement requirements. The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The recent decline in oil and gas prices has adversely impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. If commodity prices continue to decline in 2009, it will have similar adverse effects on our reserves and borrowing base. Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce Because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire and produce additional oil and gas reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future oil and gas production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital resources depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing operations will also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue additional acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase, both to complete such acquisitions and to explore and develop any newly acquired properties. The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations; a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage; our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the general economy; we are subject to numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our existing credit agreements the breach of which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance; our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future. 10 Table of Contents Despite our current levels of indebtedness, we still may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further increase the risks described above. In addition to those risks above, we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Our business is subject to operating hazards that could result in substantial losses or liabilities that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies Oil and gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic natural gas and other environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of: injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution or other environmental damage; clean up responsibilities; regulatory investigations and penalties; or suspension of operations. As we drill to deeper horizons and in more geologically complex areas, we could experience a greater increase in operating and financial risks due to inherent higher reservoir pressures and unknown downhole risk exposures. As we continue to drill deeper, the number of rigs capable of drilling to such depths will be fewer and we may experience greater competition from other operators. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. We have experienced substantial increases in premiums, especially in areas affected by hurricanes and tropical storms. Insurers have imposed revised limits affecting how much the insurers will pay on actual storm claims plus the cost to re drill wells where substantial damage has been incurred. Insurers are also requiring us to retain larger deductibles and reducing the scope of what insurable losses will include. Even with the increase in future insurance premiums, coverage will be reduced, requiring us to bear a greater potential risk if our oil and gas properties are damaged. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in our credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, at December 31, 2008, approximately 61% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the remaining 39% subject to variable interest rates. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global finance markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital; a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We are exposed to some credit risk related to our senior credit facility to the extent that one or more of our lenders may be unable to provide necessary funding to us under our existing revolving line of credit if it experiences liquidity problems. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic capital markets and the economy generally. The stress experienced by domestic capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during third quarter 2008. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to 11 Table of Contents increased volatility and diminished expectations of the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil and gas prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown. In addition, the fixed income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. The capital markets have experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probabilities of default. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us because our liquidity and ability to fund our capital expenditures is dependent in part upon our bank borrowings and access to the public capital markets. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as a worsening of the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks To manage our exposure to price risk, we, from time to time, enter into hedging arrangements, utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a significant portion of our future production. The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices rise above the price established by the hedge. In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: our production is less than expected; the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or an event materially impacts oil or gas prices or the relationship between the hedged price index and the oil and gas sales price. We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will adequately protect us from declines in the prices of oil and gas. On the other hand, where we choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in oil and gas prices than our competitors who engage in hedging transactions. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our business and marketing oil and gas. Competitors include multinational oil companies, independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or weather industry downturns more easily than we can. The demand for field services and their ability to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill and produce our oil and natural gas properties In a rising price environment, such as those experienced in 2007 and early 2008, well service providers and related equipment and personnel are in short supply. This causes escalating prices, the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use of equipment and inexperienced personnel. In some cases, we are operating in new areas where services and infrastructure do not exist or in urban areas which are more restrictive. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipelines status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of on going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. 12 Table of Contents While our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, our gas gathering operations may be subject to certain FERC reporting and posting requirements in a given year. FERC has recently issued a final rule (as amended by orders on rehearing, Order 704) requiring certain participants in the natural gas market, including certain gathering facilities and natural gas marketers that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases, to submit annual reports regarding those transactions to FERC. In addition, FERC has issued a final rule (Order 720) requiring major non interstate pipelines, defined as certain non interstate pipelines delivering more than an average of 50 million MMBtu of gas over the previous three calendar years, to post daily certain information regarding the pipelines capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERCs policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipelines rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. For more information regarding the regulation of our operations, please see Government Regulation in item 1 of this report. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines Under the EP Act 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated as a natural gas company by FERC under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of four otherwise non FERC jurisdiction facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. We also must comply the anti market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject Range to civil penalty liability. For more information regarding regulation of our operations, please see Government Regulation in Item 1 of this report. The oil and gas industry is subject to extensive regulation The oil and gas industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United States by local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous departments and agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on participants in the oil and gas industry. Compliance with such rules and regulations often increases our cost of doing business, delays our operations and, in turn, decreases our profitability. Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws, regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property damage or injuries to employees and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and even may be caused by previous owners of property we own or lease. Any past, present or future failure by us to completely comply with environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could cause us to incur substantial fines, sanctions or liabilities from cleanup costs or other damages. Incurrence of those costs or damages could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses. Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It generally is not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily, a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed. For example, several years ago, we consummated a large acquisition that proved extremely disappointing. Production from the acquired properties fell more rapidly than anticipated and further development results were below the results we had originally projected. The poor production performance of these properties resulted in material downward 13 Table of Contents reserve revisions. There is no assurance that our recent and or future acquisition activity will not result in similarly disappointing results. In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or regulatory approvals. Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with recent and future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel and none of them is currently subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise. Drilling is a high risk activity The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil and gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of other factors, including: high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor, or other services; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; reductions in oil and gas prices; limitations in the market for oil and gas; adverse weather conditions; facility or equipment malfunctions; equipment failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures; casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipelines ruptures, and discharges of toxic gases; lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations; loss of drilling fluid circulation; pressure or irregularities in formations; fires; natural disasters; blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; and uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. 14 Table of Contents If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete The oil and gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business depends on oil and gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by others The marketability of our oil and gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. Although, recently we have entered into some firm arrangements in certain production areas. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and gas. If any of these third party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport our product, or if the natural gas quality specifications for a natural gas pipeline or facility changes so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues could be adversely affected. The disruption of third party facilities due to maintenance and or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. We exist in a litigious environment Any constituent could bring suit regarding our existing or planned operations or allege a violation of an existing contract. Any such action could delay when planned operations can actually commence or could cause a halt to existing production until such alleged violations are resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in defending our rights, but halting existing production or delaying planned operations could impact our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities. Our financial statements are complex Due to United States generally accepted accounting rules and the nature of our business, our financial statements continue to be complex, particularly with reference to hedging, asset retirement obligations, equity awards, deferred taxes and the accounting for our deferred compensation plans. We expect such complexity to continue and possibly increase. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued In 2004 and 2005, we sold 33.8 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2006, we issued 6.5 million shares as part of the Stroud acquisition. In 2007, we sold 8.1 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2008, we sold 4.4 million shares of common stock with the proceeds used to pay down a portion of the outstanding balance of our bank credit facility. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is limited by our bank credit facility and our senior subordinated note agreements. We also issue restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to our employees and directors as part of their compensation. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock, additional subordinated notes or other securities or debt convertible into common stock, to extend maturities or fund capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders. Dividend limitations Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are imposed under our bank credit facility and under our senior subordinated note agreements. These limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends independent of our dividend policy. Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2008, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $21.74 per share to a high of $76.81 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: changes in oil and gas prices; variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; changes in market valuations of comparable companies; additions or departures of key personnel; or future sales of our stock. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future and our stock price could decline as a result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The table below summarizes certain data for our core operating areas for the year ended December 31, 2008. Average Daily Total Percentage of Production Total Percentage Proved Total (mcfe Production of Total Reserves Proved Area per day) (mcfe) Production (Mmcfe) Reserves Southwest 235,289 86,115,662 61 % 1,304,154 49 % Appalachia 139,832 51,178,557 36 % 1,312,426 50 % Gulf Coast 10,521 3,850,597 3 % 36,985 1 % 385,642 141,144,816 100 % 2,653,565 100 % 16 Table of Contents We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments; therefore, segment reporting is not applicable to us. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Southwest Area The Southwest Area conducts drilling, production and field operations in the Barnett Shale of North Central Texas, the Permian Basin of West Texas and eastern New Mexico, and the East Texas Basin, as well as in the Texas Panhandle and the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma. In the Southwest Area, we own 2,308 net producing wells, 96% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 72%. We have approximately 841,000 gross (547,000 net) acres under lease. Total proved reserves increased 255.8 Bcfe, or 24%, at December 31, 2008 when compared to year end 2007. Production and an unfavorable reserve revision for lower prices was more than offset by property purchases (95.6 Bcfe) and drilling additions (293.4 Bcfe). Annual production increased 22% over 2007. During 2008, the region spent $536.2 million to drill 242 (209.8 net) development wells, of which 237 (205.8 net) were productive, and 18 (14.0 net) exploratory wells, of which 13 (11.1 net) were productive. During the year, the region achieved a 97% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2008, the Southwest Area had a development inventory of 552 proven drilling locations and 352 proven recompletions. During the year, the Southwest Area drilled 88 proven locations and added 263 new locations. Development projects include recompletions, infill drilling and to a lesser extent, installation of secondary recovery projects. These activities also include increasing reserves and production through cost control, upgrading lifting equipment, improving gathering systems and surface facilities, and performing restimulations and refracturing operations. Appalachia Area Our properties in this area are located in the Appalachian Basin in the northeastern United States, principally in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New York, West Virginia and Virginia. The reserves principally produce from the Pennsylvanian (coalbed formation), Upper Devonian, Medina, Clinton, Queenston, Big Lime, Marcellus Shale, Niagaran Reef, Knox, Huntersville Chert, Oriskany and Trenton Black River formations at depths ranging from 2,500 to 12,500 feet. Generally, after initial flush production, most of these properties are characterized by gradual decline rates, typically producing for 10 to 35 years. We own 10,278 net producing wells, 59% of which we operate, and 5,255 miles of gas gathering lines. Our average working interest is 73%. We have approximately 2.7 million gross (2.3 million net) acres under lease, which include 407,800 acres where we also own a royalty interest. Reserves at December 31, 2008 increased 162.3 Bcfe, or 14%, from 2007 due to drilling additions (214.5 Bcfe) that were partially offset by production. Annual production increased 18% over 2007. During 2008, the region spent $359.5 million to drill 361 (257.4 net) development wells, all of which were productive, and 7.0 (5.0 net) exploratory wells, all of which were productive. As a result, the region achieved a 100% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2008, the Appalachia Area had an inventory of 3,800 proven drilling locations and 500 proven recompletions. During the year, the Appalachia Area drilled 192 proven locations and added 519 new locations. Gulf Coast Area The Gulf Coast properties are located onshore in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. Our major fields produce from the Yegua formations at depths of 12,000 to 14,000 feet in the Upper Texas Gulf Coast, the Upper Oligocene in South Louisiana at depths of 10,000 to 12,000 feet and the Sligo and Hosston formations at depths of 15,000 to 16,500 feet in the Oakvale field in Mississippi. We have approximately 116,000 gross (82,000 net) acres under lease. We own 18 net producing wells in this Area, 88% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 47%. Reserves increased 2.7 Bcfe, or 8%, from 2007 with drilling additions (10.5 Bcfe) partially offset by an unfavorable reserve revision and production. On an annual basis, production increased 61% from 2007. During 2008, the region spent $34.3 million to drill 5.0 (3.7 net) development wells, of which 4.0 (2.8 net) were productive, and 1.0 (0.3 net) exploratory well that was a dry hole. During the year, the Gulf Coast Area had a 69% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2008, the Gulf Coast Area had an inventory of 5 proven drilling locations and 10 proven recompletions. 17 Table of Contents Proved Reserves The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past five years: December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Natural gas (Mmcf) Developed 1,337,978 1,144,709 875,395 724,876 580,006 Undeveloped 875,568 688,088 560,583 400,534 366,422 Total 2,213,546 1,832,797 1,435,978 1,125,410 946,428 Oil and NGLs (Mbbls) Developed 49,009 47,015 37,750 33,029 27,715 Undeveloped 24,327 19,645 15,957 13,863 10,451 Total 73,336 66,660 53,707 46,892 38,166 Total (Mmcfe) (a) 2,653,565 2,232,762 1,758,226 1,406,762 1,175,425 % Developed 62 % 64 % 63 % 66 % 64 % (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. The following table sets forth summary information by area with respect to estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2008: Reserve Volumes PV 10 (a) Oil NGL Natural Gas Total Amount (Mbbls) (Mmcf) (Mmcfe) % (In thousands) % Southwest 54,967 974,353 1,304,154 49 % $ 1,819,212 54 % Appalachia 17,582 1,206,933 1,312,426 50 % 1,493,961 44 % Gulf Coast 787 32,260 36,985 1 % 87,073 2 % Total 73,336 2,213,546 2,653,565 100 % $ 3,400,246 100 % (a) PV 10 was prepared using prices in effect at the end of 2008, discounted at 10% per annum. Year end PV 10 may be considered a non GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC. We believe that the presentation of PV 10 is relevant and useful to our investors as supplemental disclosure to the standardized measure, or after tax amount, because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves prior to taking into account future corporate income taxes and our current tax structure. While the standardized measure is dependent on the unique tax situation of each company, PV 10 is based on prices and discount factors that are consistent for all companies. Because of this, PV 10 can be used within the industry and by creditors and securities analysts to evaluate estimated net cash flows from proved reserves on a more comparable basis. The difference between the standardized measure and the PV 10 amount is the discounted estimated future income tax of $819.0 million at December 31, 2008. At year end 2008, the following independent petroleum consultants reviewed our reserves: DeGolyer and MacNaughton (Southwest and Gulf Coast), H.J. Gruy and Associates, Inc. (Southwest), and Wright and Company, Inc. (Appalachia). These engineers were selected for their geographic expertise and their historical experience in engineering certain properties. At December 31, 2008, these consultants collectively reviewed approximately 87% of our proved reserves. All estimates of oil and gas reserves are subject to uncertainty. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. We did not file any reports during the year ended December 31, 2008 with any federal authority or agency with respect to our estimates of oil and gas reserves. 18 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the estimated future net cash flows, excluding open hedging contracts, from proved reserves, the present value of those net cash flows (PV 10), and the expected benchmark prices and average field prices used in projecting net cash flows over the past five years (in millions except prices): December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Future net cash flows $ 8,441 $ 11,908 $ 6,391 $ 10,429 $ 5,035 Present value Before income tax $ 3,400 $ 5,205 $ 2,771 $ 4,887 $ 2,396 After income tax (Standardized Measure) $ 2,581 $ 3,666 $ 2,002 $ 3,384 $ 1,749 Benchmark prices (NYMEX) Oil price (per barrel) $ 44.60 $ 95.98 $ 61.05 $ 61.04 $ 43.33 Gas price (per mcf) $ 5.71 $ 6.80 $ 5.64 $ 10.08 $ 6.18 Wellhead prices Oil price (per barrel) $ 42.76 $ 91.88 $ 57.66 $ 57.80 $ 40.44 Gas price (per mcf) $ 5.23 $ 6.44 $ 5.24 $ 9.83 $ 6.05 Future net cash flows represent projected revenues from the sale of proved reserves net of production and development costs (including operating expenses and production taxes). Such calculations, prepared in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities, are based on costs and prices in effect at December 31 of each year, without escalation. There can be no assurance that the proved reserves will be produced within the periods indicated or that prices and costs will remain constant. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating reserves and related information and different reservoir engineers often arrive at different estimates for the same properties. Producing Wells The following table sets forth information relating to productive wells at December 31, 2008. We also own royalty interests in an additional 1,900 wells in which we do not own a working interest. If we own both a royalty and a working interest in a well such interests are included in the table below. Wells are classified as crude oil or gas according to their predominant production stream. We do not have a significant number of dual completions. Average Total Wells Working Gross Net Interest Natural gas 14,902 10,471 70 % Crude oil 2,474 2,133 86 % Total 17,376 12,604 73 % The day to day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of the operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs or contracts for field personnel and performs other functions. An operator receives reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged by unaffiliated third parties. The charges customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated. Acreage We own interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage. These ownership interests generally take the form of working interests in oil and gas leases that have varying terms. Developed acreage includes leased acreage that is allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production even though shallower or deeper horizons may not have been fully explored. Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas or oil, regardless of whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves. 19 Table of Contents The following table sets forth certain information regarding the developed and undeveloped acreage in which we own a working interest as of December 31, 2008. Acreage related to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests is excluded from this summary: Developed Acres Undeveloped Acres Total Acres Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Alabama 72,914 61,679 72,914 61,679 Louisiana 2,567 1,650 12,781 8,080 15,348 9,730 Michigan 162 162 123 123 285 285 Mississippi 5,064 2,706 18,973 6,940 24,037 9,646 New Mexico 8,090 5,878 8,090 5,878 New York 186,867 177,890 128,820 113,716 315,687 291,606 Ohio 272,671 255,283 244,535 223,332 517,206 478,615 Oklahoma 165,700 102,097 151,242 82,306 316,942 184,403 Pennsylvania 496,804 443,785 831,010 725,946 1,327,814 1,169,731 Texas 254,020 175,363 265,019 182,556 519,039 357,919 Virginia 129,500 56,240 156,102 71,963 285,602 128,203 West Virginia 81,700 50,178 130,908 125,218 212,608 175,396 1,603,145 1,271,232 2,012,427 1,601,859 3,615,572 2,873,091 Average working interest 79 % 80 % 79 % Undeveloped Acreage Expirations The table below summarizes by year our undeveloped acreage scheduled to expire in the next five years. Acres % of Total As of December 31, Gross Net Undeveloped 2009 351,165 257,926 15% 2010 249,046 196,864 12% 2011 352,510 290,392 17% 2012 222,361 201,357 12% 2013 136,219 124,997 7% We have lease acreage that is generally subject to lease expiration if initial wells are not drilled within a specified period, generally not exceeding two years. We do not expect to lose significant lease acreage because of failure to drill due to inadequate capital, equipment or personnel. However, based on our evaluation of prospective economics, we have allowed acreage to expire and will allow additional acreage to expire in the future. Drilling Results The following table summarizes drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. As of December 31, 2008, we were in the process of drilling 44 gross (29.0 net) wells. 2008 2007 2006 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Development wells Productive 602.0 466.0 942.0 680.5 992.0 689.7 Dry 6.0 4.9 9.0 7.9 8.0 4.6 Exploratory wells Productive 20.0 16.1 11.0 6.3 12.0 6.9 Dry 6.0 3.2 5.0 3.5 5.0 2.6 Total wells Productive 622.0 482.1 953.0 686.8 1,004.0 696.6 Dry 12.0 8.1 14.0 11.4 13.0 7.2 Total 634.0 490.2 967.0 698.2 1,017.0 703.8 Success ratio 98 % 98 % 99 % 98 % 99 % 99 % 20 Table of Contents Title to Properties We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often minimal investigation of record title is made at the time of lease acquisition. Investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include: customary royalty interests; liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes; obligations or duties under applicable laws; development obligations under oil and gas leases; or net profit interests. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We have been named as a defendant in a number of legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, such litigation and claims are likely to be resolved without a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity, although an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on the operations of a given interim period or year. See also Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS There were no matters submitted to a vote of our security holders during fourth quarter 2008. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol RRC. During 2008, trading volume averaged 3.3 million shares per day. In 2007, we were selected to be included in the SP 500 Index. The following table shows the quarterly high and low sale prices and cash dividends declared as reported on the NYSE composite tape for the past two years. Cash Dividends High Low Declared 2007 First quarter $ 33.80 $ 25.59 $ 0.03 Second quarter 40.50 33.40 0.03 Third quarter 41.87 33.28 0.03 Fourth quarter 51.88 37.17 0.04 2008 First quarter $ 65.53 $ 43.02 $ 0.04 Second quarter 76.81 61.13 0.04 Third quarter 72.98 37.34 0.04 Fourth quarter 44.15 23.77 0.04 Between January 1, 2009 and February 19, 2009, the common stock traded at prices between $31.19 and $41.80 per share. Our senior subordinated notes are not listed on an exchange, but trade over the counter. 21 Table of Contents Holders of Record On February 19, 2009, there were approximately 1,652 holders of record of our common stock. Dividends The payment of dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and depends on earnings, capital expenditures and various other factors. The bank credit facility and our senior subordinated notes allow for the payment of common and preferred dividends, with certain limitations. The determination of the amount of future dividends, if any, to be declared and paid is at the sole discretion of our board and will depend upon our level of earnings and capital expenditures and other matters that the Board of Directors deems relevant. For more information, see information set forth in Item 7 of this report Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We have a repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in 2008 for the repurchase of up to $10.0 million of common stock based on market conditions and opportunities. There were no repurchases during fourth quarter 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we have $6.8 million remaining under this authorization. Stockholder Return Performance Presentation* The following graph is included in accordance with the SECs executive compensation disclosure rules. This historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock performance. The graph compares the change in the cumulative total return of Ranges common stock, the Dow Jones U.S. Exploration and Production Index, and the SP 500 Index for the five years ended December 31, 2008. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in the Companys common stock and each index on December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Range Resources Corporation $ 100 $ 217 $ 418 $ 436 $ 815 $ 546 DJ U.S. Expl. Prod. Index 100 140 230 241 344 204 SP 500 Index 100 109 112 128 132 81 * The performance graph and the information contained in this section is not soliciting material, is being furnished not filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table shows selected financial information for the five years ended December 31, 2008. Significant producing property acquisitions in 2006 and 2004 affect the comparability of year to year financial and operating data. In March 2007, we sold our Gulf of Mexico properties for proceeds of $155.0 million. Accordingly, the financial and statistical data contained in the following discussion reflects our Gulf of Mexico operations as discontinued operations. All weighted average shares and per share data have been adjusted for the three for two stock split effected December 2, 2005. This information should be read in conjunction with Item 7 of this report Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except per share data) Balance Sheet Data: Current assets (a) $ 404,311 $ 261,814 $ 388,925 $ 207,977 $ 136,336 Current liabilities (b) 353,514 305,433 251,685 321,760 177,162 Oil and gas properties, net 4,852,710 3,503,808 2,608,088 1,679,593 1,340,077 Total assets 5,562,543 4,016,508 3,187,674 2,018,985 1,595,406 Bank debt 693,000 303,500 452,000 269,200 423,900 Subordinated notes 1,097,562 847,158 596,782 346,948 196,656 Stockholders equity (c) 2,457,833 1,728,022 1,256,161 696,923 566,340 Weighted average dilutive shares outstanding 155,943 149,911 138,711 129,125 97,998 Cash dividends declared per common share 0.16 0.13 0.09 .0599 .0267 Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided from operating activities $ 824,767 $ 642,291 $ 479,875 $ 325,745 $ 209,249 Net cash used in investing activities 1,731,777 1,020,572 911,659 432,377 624,301 Net cash provided from financing activities 903,745 379,917 429,416 93,000 432,803 (a) 2007 included deferred tax assets of $26.9 million compared to $61.7 million in 2005 and $26.3 million in 2004. 2008 includes $221.4 million unrealized derivative assets compared to $53.0 million in 2007 and $93.6 million in 2006. (b) 2008 includes unrealized derivative liabilities of $10,000 compared to $30.5 million in 2007, $4.6 million in 2006, $160.1 million in 2005 and $61.0 million in 2004. 2008 includes $33.0 million of deferred tax liabilities. (c) Stockholders equity includes other comprehensive income (loss) of $77.5 million in 2008 compared to ($26.8 million) in 2007, $36.5 million in 2006, ($147.1 million) in 2005 and ($43.3 million) in 2004. 23 Table of Contents Statement of Operations Data: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except per share data) Revenues Oil and gas sales $ 1,226,560 $ 862,537 $ 599,139 $ 495,470 $ 278,903 Transportation and gathering 4,577 2,290 2,422 2,306 2,002 Loss on retirement of securities (39 ) Derivative fair value income (loss) 70,135 (7,767 ) 142,395 10,303 614 Other 21,675 5,031 856 1,024 1,588 Total revenue 1,322,947 862,091 744,812 509,103 283,068 Costs and expenses Direct operating 142,387 107,499 81,261 57,866 39,419 Production and ad valorem taxes 55,172 42,443 36,415 30,822 19,845 Exploration 67,690 43,345 44,088 29,529 12,619 Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties 47,906 6,750 257 623 1,161 General and administrative 92,308 69,670 49,886 33,444 20,634 Deferred compensation plan (24,689 ) 28,332 6,873 29,474 19,176 Interest expense and dividends on trust preferred 99,748 77,737 55,849 37,619 22,437 Depletion, depreciation and amortization 299,831 220,578 154,482 113,741 79,467 Total costs and expenses 780,353 596,354 429,111 333,118 214,758 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 542,594 265,737 315,701 175,985 68,310 Income tax provision (benefit) Current 4,268 320 1,912 1,071 (245 ) Deferred 192,168 98,441 119,840 64,809 25,327 196,436 98,761 121,752 65,880 25,082 Income from continuing operations 346,158 166,976 193,949 110,105 43,228 Discontinued operations, net of taxes 63,593 (35,247 ) 906 (997 ) Net income 346,158 230,569 158,702 111,011 42,231 Preferred dividends (5,163 ) Net income available to common stockholders $ 346,158 $ 230,569 $ 158,702 $ 111,011 $ 37,068 Earnings per common share: Basic income from continuing operations $ 2.29 $ 1.16 $ 1.45 $ 0.89 $ 0.41 discontinued operations 0.44 (0.26 ) (0.01 ) net income $ 2.29 $ 1.60 $ 1.19 $ 0.89 $ 0.40 Diluted income from continuing operations $ 2.22 $ 1.11 $ 1.39 $ 0.85 $ 0.39 discontinued operations 0.43 (0.25 ) 0.01 (0.01 ) net income $ 2.22 $ 1.54 $ 1.14 $ 0.86 $ 0.38 24 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our business and results of operations together with our present financial condition. This section should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Statements in our discussion may be forward looking. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that a number of factors could cause future production, revenues and expenses to differ materially from our expectations. See Disclosures Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Annual Report and Risk Factors in Item 1A for additional discussion of some of these factors and risks. Overview of Our Business We are an independent oil and gas company engaged in the exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, primarily in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. We operate in one segment. We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Our strategy is to increase reserves and production through internally generated drilling projects coupled with complementary acquisitions. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and gas and on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas activities. Our corporate headquarters are in Fort Worth, Texas. Industry Environment We operate entirely within the United States, a mature region for the exploration and production of oil and gas. Although new discoveries of oil and gas occur in the United States, because it is a mature region, the size and frequency of these discoveries is generally declining, while finding and development costs are increasing. We believe that there remain areas of the United States, such as the Appalachian Basin and certain areas in our Southwest and Gulf Coast Areas that are underexplored or have not been fully explored and developed with the benefit of newly available exploration and production reservoir enhancement technology. Examples of such technology include advanced 3 D seismic processing, hydraulic reservoir fracture stimulation, advances in well logging and analysis, horizontal drilling and completion techniques, secondary and tertiary recovery practices, and automated remote well monitoring and control devices. Oil and gas are commodities. The price that we receive for the natural gas we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand for natural gas in the United States increased dramatically during this decade; however, the current economic slowdown has reduced this demand over the second half of 2008 and is continuing into 2009. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile and we expect the volatility to continue in the future. Factors impacting the future supply balance are the growth in domestic gas production and the increase in the United States LNG import capacity. Significant LNG capacity increases have been announced which may allow for more LNG imports resulting in increased price volatility. A substantial or extended decline in oil and gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and gas reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets. Realized oil and gas average prices increased from 2007 to 2008. As a result of narrowing excess worldwide capacity, weakness in the dollar, and continuing tension in the Middle East, oil reached a record price of $147.00 per Bbl in July 2008. However, rising crude oil supplies, the tightened credit markets and lower demand in the slowing U.S and global economies have caused recent oil prices to decline. Oil prices are expected to remain volatile. Although our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) received for oil and gas was $8.58 per mcfe in the year ended December 31, 2008, prices were bolstered by record oil prices in the first half of the year. In fourth quarter 2008, our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) declined to $6.86 per mcfe. In a trend that began in the fourth quarter of 2008 and has continued into 2009, the industry has experienced deteriorating basis differentials in the Midcontinent and West Texas areas primarily caused by an over supply of gas in these regions. 25 Table of Contents Capital Budget for 2009 Our capital budget for 2009 is currently set at $700.0 million, excluding acquisitions. The 2009 capital budget is less than the 2008 capital spending levels due to lower expected operating cash flows resulting from declining oil and gas prices. For 2009, we expect our cash flow to fund our capital budget. As has been our historical practice, we will periodically review our capital expenditures throughout the year and adjust the budget based on commodity prices and drilling success. Source of Our Revenues We derive our revenues from the sale of oil and gas that is produced from our properties. Revenues are a function of the volume produced, the prevailing market price at the time of sale, quality, Btu content and transportation costs to market. Production volumes and the price of oil and gas are the primary factors affecting our revenues. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to downward price fluctuations, we use derivative instruments to hedge future sales prices on a significant portion of our gas and oil production. During 2008 and 2006, the use of derivative instruments prevented us from realizing the full benefit of upward price movements and may do so in future periods. Our average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements) include both the effects of the settlement of derivative contracts that are accounted for as hedges and the settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges. Principal Components of Our Cost Structure Direct Operating Expenses. These are day to day costs incurred to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market together with the daily costs incurred to maintain our producing properties. Such costs also include maintenance, repairs and workovers expenses related to our oil and gas properties. These costs are expected to moderate in 2009 as we expect industry demand for these services to decline. Direct operating expenses also include stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with equity grants of stock appreciation rights (SARs) and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. Production taxes are paid on produced oil and gas based on a percentage of market prices (not hedged prices) or at fixed rates established by federal, state or local taxing authorities. Ad valorem taxes are taxes generally based on reserve values at the end of each year. Exploration Expense. These are geological and geophysical costs, including payroll and benefits for the geological and geophysical staff, seismic costs, delay rentals and the costs of unsuccessful exploratory dry holes. Exploration expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with equity grants of SARs and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. General and Administrative Expense. These costs include overhead, including payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, costs of managing our production and development operations, franchise taxes, audit and other professional fees and legal compliance are included in general and administrative expense. General and administrative expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with equity grants of SARs and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties. This category includes unproved property impairment and costs associated with lease expirations. Interest. We typically finance a portion of our working capital requirements and acquisitions with borrowings under our bank credit facility and with our longer term debt securities. As a result, we incur substantial interest expense that is affected by both fluctuations in interest rates and our financing decisions. We will likely continue to incur significant interest expense as we continue to grow. We expect our 2009 capital budget to be funded primarily with internal cash flow. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. This includes the systematic expensing of the capitalized costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop gas and oil. As a successful efforts company, we capitalize all costs associated with our acquisition and development efforts and all successful exploration efforts, and apportion these costs to each unit of production through depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. This expense also includes the systematic, monthly accretion of the future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. Income Taxes. We are subject to state and federal income taxes but are currently not in a tax paying position for regular federal income taxes, primarily due to the current deductibility of intangible drilling costs (IDC). We do pay some state income taxes where our IDC deductions do not exceed our taxable income or where state income taxes are determined on another basis. Currently, substantially all of our federal taxes are deferred; however, at some point, we anticipate using all of our net operating loss carryforwards and we will recognize current income tax expense and continue to recognize current tax expense as long as we are generating taxable income. 26 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income and Operations Overview of 2008 Results During 2008, we achieved the following results: Achieved 21% production growth and 19% reserve growth; Drilled 490 net wells with a 98% success rate; Continued expansion of emerging plays; Posted record financial results and maintained a strong balance sheet; Completed acquisitions of properties containing 95.6 Bcfe of proved reserves; and Completed $68.2 million of asset sales. Our 2008 performance reflects another year of successfully executing our strategy of growth through drilling supplemented by complementary acquisitions. The business of exploring for, developing, and acquiring oil and gas is highly competitive and capital intensive. As in any commodity business, the costs associated with finding, acquiring, extracting, and financing our operations are critical to profitability and long term value creation for stockholders. Generating meaningful growth while containing costs presents an ongoing challenge. During the recent period of historically high oil and gas prices, drilling service and operating costs generally increased due to increased competition for goods and services. Prices for oil and gas dramatically declined in the last half of 2008 and we are presently experiencing reductions in service costs which vary by region. We faced other challenges in 2008 including attracting and retaining qualified personnel, consummating and integrating acquisitions, accessing the capital markets to fund our growth on sufficiently favorable terms and introducing new oil and gas extraction technologies into new regions and projects such as the Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale. We have continued to expand and improve the technical staff through the hiring of additional experienced professionals. Our inventory of exploration and development prospects continues to be strong, providing new growth opportunities, greater diversification of technical risk and better efficiency. Total revenues increased 53% in 2008 over the same period of 2007. This increase is due to higher production and higher realized oil and gas prices. Our 2008 production growth is due to the continued success of our drilling program and to acquisitions completed in 2006 and 2007. Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements) were 7% higher in 2008, although realized prices declined sharply in the last half of 2008. As discussed in Item 1A of this report, significant changes in oil and gas prices can have a material impact on our balance sheet and our results of operations, including the fair value of our derivatives. All of our expenses have increased on both an absolute and per mcfe basis when compared to 2007, due to higher overall industry costs, higher compensation expense resulting from additional employees, increased salaries and higher levels of activity. While overall costs were higher, the rate of inflation experienced in our industry has moderated for some goods and services as commodity prices weakened. The availability of goods and services continues to be mixed, based on region and service company expertise. We continue to experience competition for technical and experienced personnel and overall compensation inflation in our industry has moderated. It is difficult for us to forecast price trends, supply, service or personnel availability, any of which, if changed in an adverse manner, would significantly impact both operating costs and capital expenditures. As we continue to have Marcellus wells shut in waiting on pipeline and processing facilities and we continue to expand our Marcellus operating team to meet the needs of this developing asset, we expect to see continued upward pressure on our cost structure. The initial phase of the pipeline and processing infrastructure was completed in fourth quarter 2008 with additional expansions set for 2009 and later. 27 Table of Contents Oil and Gas Sales, Production and Realized Price Calculations Our oil and gas sales vary from year to year as a result of changes in realized commodity prices and production volumes. Hedges included in oil and gas sales reflect settlements on those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting. Cash settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges are included in the income statement caption called Derivative fair value income (loss). Oil and gas sales increased 42% from 2007 due to a 21% increase in production and a 17% increase in realized prices. Oil and gas sales in 2007 increased 44% from 2006 due to a 22% increase in production and an 18% increase in realized prices. The following table illustrates the primary components of oil and gas sales for each of the last three years (in thousands): 2008 2007 2006 Oil and Gas Sales Oil wellhead $ 298,482 $ 226,686 $ 189,516 Oil hedges realized (72,135 ) (23,755 ) (45,265 ) Total oil revenue $ 226,347 $ 202,931 $ 144,251 Gas wellhead $ 923,160 $ 585,538 $ 466,099 Gas hedges realized 8,561 27,916 (47,916 ) Total gas revenue $ 931,721 $ 613,454 $ 418,183 Total NGL revenue $ 68,492 $ 46,152 $ 36,705 Combined wellhead $ 1,290,134 $ 858,376 $ 692,320 Combined hedges (63,574 ) 4,161 (93,181 ) Total oil and gas sales $ 1,226,560 $ 862,537 $ 599,139 Our production continues to grow through drilling success as we place new wells into production and through additions from acquisitions, partially offset by the natural decline of our oil and gas wells and asset sales. For 2008, our production volumes increased 18% in our Appalachia Area, increased 22% in our Southwest Area and increased 61% in our Gulf Coast Area. For 2007, our production volumes increased 15% in our Appalachia Area, increased 28% in our Southwest Area and declined 17% in our Gulf Coast Area. For 2006, our production volumes increased 10% in our Appalachia Area, increased 29% in our Southwest Area and declined 36% in our Gulf Coast Area. Our production for each of the last three years is set forth in the following table: 2008 2007 2006 Production Crude oil (bbls) 3,084,529 3,359,668 3,039,150 NGLs (bbls) 1,385,701 1,114,730 1,091,785 Natural gas (mcf) 114,323,436 89,594,626 70,712,770 Total (mcfe) (a) 141,144,816 116,441,014 95,498,380 Average daily production Crude oil (bbls) 8,428 9,205 8,326 NGLs (bbls) 3,786 3,054 2,991 Natural gas (mcf) 312,359 245,465 193,734 Total (mcfe) (a) 385,642 319,016 261,639 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. 28 Table of Contents Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) received for oil and gas during 2008 was $8.58 per mcfe compared to $8.02 per mcfe in 2007 and $6.80 per mcfe in 2006. Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) calculation includes all cash settlements for derivatives, whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Average price calculations for each of the last three years is shown below: 2008 2007 2006 Average Prices Average sales prices (wellhead): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 96.77 $ 67.47 $ 62.36 NGLs (per bbl) $ 49.43 $ 41.40 $ 33.62 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.07 $ 6.54 $ 6.59 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 9.14 $ 7.37 $ 7.25 Average realized prices (including derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 73.38 $ 60.40 $ 47.46 NGLs (per bbl) $ 49.43 $ 41.40 $ 33.62 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.15 $ 6.85 $ 5.91 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 8.69 $ 7.41 $ 6.27 Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 68.20 $ 60.16 $ 47.46 NGLs (per bbl) $ 49.43 $ 41.40 $ 33.62 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.15 $ 7.66 $ 6.62 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 8.58 $ 8.02 $ 6.80 Average NYMEX prices (b): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 100.47 $ 72.34 $ 66.22 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.91 $ 6.92 $ 7.26 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. (b) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. 29 Table of Contents Derivative fair value income (loss) increased to a gain of $70.1 million in 2008 compared to a loss of $7.8 million in 2007 and a gain of $142.4 million in 2006. Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are, to a degree, an economic offset to our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method whereby all realized and unrealized gains and losses related to these contracts are included in Derivative fair value income (loss) in the revenue section of our statement of operations. Mark to market accounting treatment creates volatility in our revenues as gains and losses from derivatives are included in total revenues and are not included in our balance sheet in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As commodity prices increase or decrease, such changes will have an opposite effect on the mark to market value of our derivatives. Because oil and gas prices declined dramatically in the last half of 2008, our derivatives became comparatively more valuable. However, we expect these gains will be offset by lower wellhead revenues in the future. We have also entered into basis swap agreements to limit volatility caused by changing differentials between index and regional prices received. Basis swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting purposes and are marked to market. Hedge ineffectiveness, also included in Derivative fair value income (loss), is associated with our hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The following table presents information about the components of derivative fair value income (loss) for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands): 2008 2007 2006 Change in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting (a) $ 83,867 $ (78,769 ) $ 86,491 Realized (loss) gain on settlements gas (b) (c) (1,383 ) 71,098 49,939 Realized loss on settlements oil (b) (c) (15,431 ) (244 ) Hedge ineffectiveness realized (c) 1,386 968 unrealized (a) 1,696 (820 ) 5,965 Derivative fair value income (loss) $ 70,135 $ (7,767 ) $ 142,395 (a) These amounts are unrealized and are not included in average sales price calculations. (b) These amounts represent realized gains and losses on settled derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. (c) These settlements are included in average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements). Other revenue increased in 2008 to $21.7 million compared to $5.0 million in 2007 and $856,000 in 2006. The 2008 period includes a $20.2 million gain on the sale of assets and a loss from equity method investments of $218,000. The 2007 period includes income from equity method investments of $974,000 and other miscellaneous income. The 2006 period includes income from equity method investments of $548,000. Our costs have increased as we continue to grow. We believe some of our expense fluctuations are best analyzed on a unit of production, or per mcfe, basis. The following presents information about certain of our expenses on a per mcfe basis for 2008, 2007 and 2006. Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change Direct operating expense $ 1.01 $ 0.92 $ 0.09 10 % $ 0.92 $ 0.85 $ 0.07 8 % Production and ad valorem tax expense 0.39 0.36 0.03 8 % 0.36 0.38 (0.02 ) 5 % General and administrative expense 0.65 0.60 0.05 8 % 0.60 0.52 0.08 15 % Interest expense 0.71 0.67 0.04 6 % 0.67 0.58 0.09 15 % Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense 2.12 1.89 0.23 12 % 1.89 1.62 0.27 17 % 30 Table of Contents Direct operating expense was $142.4 million in 2008 compared to $107.5 million in 2007 and $81.3 million in 2006 due to higher oilfield service costs and higher volumes. Our operating expenses are increasing as we add new wells from development and acquisitions and maintain production from our existing properties. We incurred $9.9 million of workover costs in 2008 compared to $7.1 million in 2007 and $3.5 million in 2006. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses for 2008 increased $0.09 or 10% from the same period of 2007 with the increase consisting primarily of higher workover costs ($0.01 per mcfe), higher personnel and related costs ($0.02 per mcfe) along with higher equipment leasing costs ($0.02 per mcfe) and higher overall industry costs. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses for 2007 increased $0.07 or 8% from the same period of 2006 with the increase consisting primarily of higher workover costs ($0.02 per mcfe), higher water disposal costs ($0.02 per mcfe), higher well services and equipment costs ($0.04 per mcfe) and a $0.01 per mcfe increase in stock based compensation. Stock based compensation expense represents the amortization of our grants of restricted stock and SARs as part of employee compensation. The following table summarizes direct operating expenses per mcfe for 2008, 2007 and 2006: Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change Lease operating expense $ 0.92 $ 0.84 $ 0.08 10 % $ 0.84 $ 0.80 $ 0.04 5 % Workovers 0.07 0.06 0.01 17 % 0.06 0.04 0.02 50 % Stock based compensation (non cash) 0.02 0.02 % 0.02 0.01 0.01 100 % Total direct operating expenses $ 1.01 $ 0.92 $ 0.09 10 % $ 0.92 $ 0.85 $ 0.07 8 % Production and ad valorem taxes are paid based on market prices and not hedged prices. These costs were $55.2 million in 2008 compared to $42.4 million in 2007 and $36.4 million in 2006. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes increased to $0.39 in 2008 from $0.36 in the same period of 2007, primarily due to a 24% increase in pre hedge prices. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes decreased to $0.36 in 2007 from $0.38 in 2006 with lower ad valorem taxes per mcfe due to lower property tax rates in Texas as a result of the new margin tax. General and administrative expense was $92.3 million for 2008 compared to $69.7 million in 2007 and $49.9 million in 2006. The 2008 increase of $22.6 million when compared to the prior year is due primarily to higher salaries and benefits ($12.0 million) due to an increase in the number of employees (14%) and salary increases, higher stock based compensation ($5.6 million), higher legal and professional fees ($921,000), an allowance for bad debt expense of $450,000 and higher office expenses, including rent and information technology. Our personnel costs continue to increase as we invest in our technical teams and other staffing to support our expansion into new regions particularly the Marcellus shall play in Appalachia. General and administrative expenses for 2007 increased $19.8 million from the same period of 2006 due primarily to higher salaries and benefits ($10.4 million), higher stock based compensation ($4.0 million) and higher rent and office expense ($2.3 million). Stock based compensation expense represents the amortization of our grants of restricted stock and SARs to our employees and directors as part of compensation. The following table summarizes general and administrative expenses per mcfe for 2008, 2007 and 2006: Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change General and administrative $ 0.48 $ 0.44 $ 0.04 9 % $ 0.44 $ 0.37 $ 0.07 19 % Stock based compensation (non cash) 0.17 0.16 0.01 6 % 0.16 0.15 0.01 7 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 0.65 $ 0.60 $ 0.05 8 % $ 0.60 $ 0.52 $ 0.08 15 % Interest expense was $99.7 million for 2008 compared to $77.7 million in 2007 and $55.8 million in 2006. Interest expense for 2008 increased $22.0 million from the same period of 2007 due to the refinancing of certain debt from floating rates to higher fixed rates along with higher overall debt balances. In September 2007, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017, which added $13.9 million of additional interest costs in 2008. In May 2008, we issued $250.0 million of 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2018, which added $11.8 million of interest costs in 2008. The proceeds from both issuances were used to retire bank debt which carried a lower interest rate. The note issuances were undertaken to better match the maturities of our debt with the life of our properties and to give us greater liquidity for the near term. Average debt outstanding on the bank credit facility for 2008 was $494.2 million compared to $417.6 million for 2007 and the weighted average interest rate was 4.4% in 2008 compared to 6.4% in 2007. Interest expense for 2007 increased $21.9 million from the same period of 2006 due to higher average debt balances and the refinancing of certain debt from short term floating to longer term fixed rates. The issuance of the 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 in September 2007 added $4.8 million of interest costs in 2007. The issuance of the 7.5% senior subordinated notes in May 2006 added $9.1 million of interest expense in 2007. Average debt outstanding on the credit facility for 2007 was $417.6 million compared to $347.8 million in 2006. The weighted average interest rate was 6.4% in 2007 compared to 6.4% in the same period of 2006. 31 Table of Contents Depletion, depreciation and amortization (DDA) was $299.8 million in 2008 compared to $220.6 million in 2007 and $154.5 million in 2006. The increase in 2008 compared to the same period of 2007 is due to a 21% increase in production and a 14% increase in depletion rates. On a per mcfe basis, DDA increased to $2.12 in 2008 compared to $1.89 in 2007 and $1.62 in 2006. DDA expense increased $66.1 million or 43% in 2007 compared to the same period of 2006 due to a 22% increase in production and a 16% increase in depletion rates. The increase in DDA per mcfe is related to increasing drilling costs, higher acquisition costs and the mix of our production. The following table summarizes DDA expense per mcfe for 2008, 2007 and 2006: Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change Depletion and amortization $ 1.99 $ 1.74 $ 0.25 14 % $ 1.74 $ 1.50 $ 0.24 16 % Depreciation 0.09 0.09 % 0.09 0.08 0.01 13 % Accretion and other 0.04 0.06 (0.02 ) 33 % 0.06 0.04 0.02 50 % Total DDA expense $ 2.12 $ 1.89 $ 0.23 12 % $ 1.89 $ 1.62 $ 0.27 17 % Other Operating Expenses Our total operating expenses also include other expenses that generally do not trend with production. These expenses include stock based compensation, exploration expense, abandonment and impairment of unproved properties and deferred compensation plan expenses. In 2008, stock based compensation is a component of direct operating expense ($2.8 million), exploration expense ($4.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($23.8 million) for a total of $31.2 million. In 2007, stock based compensation was a component of direct operating expense ($1.8 million), exploration expense ($3.5 million) and general and administrative expense ($18.2 million) for a total of $24.0 million. In 2006, stock based compensation was a component of direct operating expense ($1.4 million), exploration expense ($3.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($14.3 million) for a total of $19.1 million. Stock based compensation includes the amortization of restricted stock grants and SARs grants. These costs are increasing due to increasing grant date fair values and an increase in the number of grants on our increasing employee base. Exploration expense was $67.7 million in 2008 compared to $43.3 million in 2007 and $44.1 million in 2006. The following table details our exploration related expenses for 2008, 2007 and 2006 (in thousands): Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change %Change Dry hole expense $ 13,371 $ 15,149 $ (1,778 ) 12 % $ 15,149 $ 15,084 $ 65 % Seismic 30,645 10,933 19,712 180 % 10,933 15,277 (4,344 ) 28 % Personnel expense 11,804 8,924 2,880 32 % 8,924 6,917 2,007 29 % Stock based compensation expense 4,130 3,473 657 19 % 3,473 3,079 394 13 % Delay rentals and other 7,740 4,866 2,874 59 % 4,866 3,731 1,135 30 % Total exploration expense $ 67,690 $ 43,345 $ 24,345 56 % $ 43,345 $ 44,088 $ (743 ) 2 % Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties was $47.9 million in 2008 compared to $6.8 million in 2007 and $257,000 in 2006. This increase is primarily due to the significant increase in lease acquisition costs over the past three years and increased leasing activity in exploratory areas that require several years to delineate. As we continue to review our acreage positions and high grade our drilling inventory based on the current price environment, more leasehold impairments and abandonments will be recorded. Deferred compensation plan expense was a gain of $24.7 million in 2008 compared to a loss of $28.3 million in 2007 and a loss of $6.9 million in 2006. This non cash expense relates to the increase or decrease in value of the vested Range common stock held in our deferred compensation plan. The deferred compensation liability is adjusted to fair value by a charge or a credit to deferred compensation plan expense. The year ended 2008 decreased $53.0 million from the same period of 2007 due to a decline in our stock price, which decreased from $51.36 at December 31, 2007 to $34.39 at December 31, 2008. During the same period of the prior year, our stock price increased from $27.46 at December 31, 2006 to $51.36 at December 31, 2007. From December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006 our stock price increased from $26.34 to $27.46. Income tax expense was $196.4 million in 2008 compared to $98.8 million in 2007 and $121.8 million in 2006. The 2008 increase reflects a 104% increase in income from continuing operations before taxes compared to the same period of 2007. 2008 provided for tax expenses at an effective rate of 36.2% compared to an effective rate of 37.2% in the same period of 2007. For 2008, current income taxes of $4.3 million include state income taxes of $3.3 million and $1.0 million of federal income taxes. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was different than the statutory rate of 35% due to state income 32 Table of Contents taxes and $2.0 million of additional tax benefit related to discrete items. Income tax expense for 2007 decreased to $98.8 million, reflecting a 16% decrease in income from continuing operations before taxes compared to the same period of 2006. The year ended December 31, 2007 provided for tax expense at an effective rate of 37.2% compared to an effective rate of 38.6% in the same period of 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2007, current income taxes includes state income taxes of $449,000 and a benefit of $129,000 of federal income taxes. We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 37% for 2009. Discontinued operations in 2007 include the operating results related to our Gulf of Mexico properties and Austin Chalk properties sold in first quarter 2007. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Our main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, a bank credit facility with both uncommitted and committed availability, asset sales and access to the debt and equity capital markets. The debt and equity capital markets have recently exhibited adverse conditions. Continued volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing debt due to increased spreads over relevant interest rate benchmarks and affect our ability to access those markets. At this point, we do not believe our liquidity has been materially affected by the recent events in the global financial markets and we do not expect our liquidity to be materially impacted in the near future. We will continue to monitor our liquidity and the credit markets. Additionally, we will continue to monitor events and circumstances surrounding each of the twenty six lenders in our bank credit facility. To date we have experienced no disruptions in our ability to access the bank credit facility. However, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact to us of any further disruption in the credit environment. For additional information, see Risk Factors Difficult Conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in Item 1A of this report. In December 2008, we elected to utilize the expansion option under our bank credit facility and increased our credit facility commitment by $250.0 million, which makes the current bank commitment $1.25 billion. At December 31, 2008, our borrowing base was $1.5 billion. The borrowing base represents the amount approved by the bank group than can be borrowed based on our assets while the bank commitment (or facility amount) is the amount the banks have committed to fund pursuant to the credit agreement. We currently believe our maximum credit facility borrowing capacity exceeds our current borrowing base and, based on current circumstances, is sufficient to absorb a decline in commodity prices or any changes in bank lending practices. During 2008, our net cash provided from continuing operations of $824.8 million, proceeds from our April 2008 common stock offering of $282.2 million, proceeds from our May 2008 note offering of $250.0 million, proceeds from the sale of assets of $68.2 million and bank borrowings were used to fund $1.8 billion of capital expenditures (including acquisitions and equity investments). At December 31, 2008, we had $753,000 in cash and total assets of $5.6 billion. Our debt to capitalization ratio was 42% at December 31, 2008 compared to 40% at December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, our total capitalization was as follows (in thousands): 2008 2007 Bank debt $ 693,000 $ 303,500 Senior subordinated notes and other 1,097,668 847,158 Total debt 1,790,668 1,150,658 Stockholders equity 2,457,833 1,728,022 Total capitalization $ 4,248,501 $ 2,878,680 Debt to capitalization ratio 42 % 40 % Long term debt at December 31, 2008 totaled $1.8 billion, including $693.0 million of bank credit facility debt and $1.1 billion of senior subordinated notes. Our available committed borrowing capacity at December 31, 2008 was $557.0 million. Cash is required to fund capital expenditures necessary to offset inherent declines in production and reserves that are typical in the oil and gas industry. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on capital resources available and the success of finding or acquiring additional reserves. We currently believe that net cash generated from operating activities and unused committed borrowing capacity under the bank credit facility combined with our oil and gas price hedges currently in place will be adequate to satisfy near term financial obligations and liquidity needs. However, long term cash flows are subject to a number of variables including the level of production and prices as well as various economic conditions that have historically affected the oil and gas business. A material drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production and reserves would reduce our ability to fund capital expenditures, reduce debt, meet financial obligations and remain profitable. We operate in an environment with numerous financial and operating risks, including, but not limited to, the inherent risks of the search for, development and production of oil and gas, the ability to buy properties and sell production at prices which provide an attractive return and the highly competitive nature of the industry. Our ability to expand our reserve base is, in part, dependent on obtaining sufficient capital through internal cash flow, bank borrowings, asset sales or the issuance of debt or 33 Table of Contents equity securities. There can be no assurance that internal cash flow and other capital sources will provide sufficient funds to maintain capital expenditures that we believe are necessary to offset inherent declines in production and proven reserves. Our opinions concerning liquidity and our ability to avail ourselves in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward looking statements are based on currently available information. If this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely affected. Factors that affect the availability of financing include our performance, the state of the worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the global financial climate and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the level of our working capital or outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies. For additional information, see Risk Factors Difficult Conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in Item 1A of this report. Credit Arrangements We maintain a $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which we refer to as our bank debt or our bank credit facility. The bank credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets and matures on October 25, 2012. Availability under the bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base set by the lenders semi annually with an option to set more often in certain circumstances. The borrowing base is dependent on a number of factors, primarily the lenders assessment of future cash flows. Redeterminations of the borrowing base require approval of 2/3rds of the lenders; increases require unanimous approval. At February 19, 2009, the bank credit facility had a $1.5 billion borrowing base and a $1.25 billion facility amount. Remaining credit availability is $442.0 million on February 19, 2009. Our bank group is comprised of twenty six commercial banks, with no one bank holding more than 5.0% of the bank credit facility. We believe our large number of banks and relatively low commitment hold levels allows for sufficient lending capacity should we elect to increase our $1.25 billion commitment up to the $1.5 billion borrowing base and also allows for flexibility should there be additional consolidation within the banking sector. In December 2008, we elected to utilize the expansion option under the bank credit facility and increased our credit facility commitment by $250.0 million, which made the current commitment $1.25 billion. Our bank debt and our subordinated notes impose limitations on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments (as defined under the debt agreements for our bank debt and our subordinated notes). The debt agreements also contain customary covenants relating to debt incurrence, working capital, dividends and financial ratios. We were in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2008. Cash Flow Cash flows from operations are primarily affected by production volumes and commodity prices, net of the effects of settlements of our derivatives. Our cash flows from operations also are impacted by changes in working capital. We sell substantially all of our oil and gas production at the wellhead under floating market contracts. However, we generally hedge a substantial, but varying portion of our anticipated future oil and gas production for the next 12 to 24 months. Any payments due to counterparties under our derivative contracts should ultimately be funded by prices received from the sale of our production. Production receipts, however, often lag payments to the counterparties. Any interim cash needs are funded by borrowing under the credit facility. As of December 31, 2008, we have entered into hedging agreements covering 97.8 Bcfe for 2009. Net cash provided from continuing operations in 2008 was $824.8 million, compared to $632.1 million in 2007 and $441.5 million in 2006. The increase in cash provided by operating activities from 2007 to 2008 and from 2006 to 2007 was primarily due to increased production from acquisitions and development activity and higher price realizations. Cash provided from operations is largely dependent upon prices received for oil and gas production. As of February 19, 2009, we have hedged approximately 77% of our 2009 projected production. Net cash provided from continuing operations is also affected by working capital changes or the timing of cash receipts and disbursements. Changes in working capital (as reflected in the consolidated statement of cash flows) for 2008 was a positive $20.2 million compared to a negative $13.0 million in 2007 and a positive $20.3 million in 2006. Net cash used in investing activities in 2008 was $1.7 billion compared to $1.0 billion in 2007 and $911.7 million in 2006. In 2008, we spent $881.9 million on additions to oil and gas properties, $834.8 million on acquisitions and $44.2 million on equity method investments and other assets. Acquisitions in 2008 include the purchase of producing and non producing Barnett Shale properties and Marcellus Shale leasehold. In 2007, we spent $782.4 million in additions to oil and gas properties, $336.5 million on acquisitions and $94.7 million on equity method investments. Acquisitions in 2007 included acquiring additional interests in the Nora field of Virginia where we entered into a joint development plan with Equitable Resources, Inc. Also in 2007, we recognized proceeds of $234.3 million from the sale of assets. The 2006 period included $487.2 million in additions to oil and gas properties and $360.1 million of acquisitions. Acquisitions in 2006 include the purchase of Stroud Energy, Inc., which had operations in the Barnett Shale. 34 Table of Contents Net cash provided from financing activities in 2008 was $903.7 million, compared to $379.9 million in 2007 and $429.4 million in 2006. Historically, sources of financing have been primarily bank borrowings and capital raised through equity and debt offerings. During 2008, we received proceeds of $250.0 million from the issuance of our 7.25% senior subordinated notes and proceeds of $282.2 million from a common stock offering. During 2007, we received proceeds of $250.0 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 and proceeds of $280.4 million from a common stock offering. During 2006, we received proceeds of $249.5 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016. In 2008, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $10.0 million of our common stock. During 2008, we expended $3.2 million to acquire 78,400 shares. Capital Requirements Our primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, repayment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and payment of dividends. During 2008, $930.1 million of capital was expended on drilling projects. Also in 2008, $845.5 million was expended on acquisitions of additional interests in producing properties and unproved acreage. The capital program, excluding acquisitions, was funded by net cash flow from operations, proceeds from asset sales, debt and equity offerings and borrowings under our bank credit facility. Our capital expenditure budget for 2009 is currently set at $700.0 million, excluding acquisitions. Development and exploration activities are highly discretionary, and, for the foreseeable future, we expect such activities to be maintained at levels equal to internal cash flow. To the extent capital requirements exceed internal cash flow and proceeds from asset sales, debt or equity may be issued to fund these requirements. We currently believe we have sufficient liquidity and cash flow to meet our obligations for the next twelve months; however, a continued drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production or reserves could adversely affect our ability to fund capital expenditures and meet our financial obligations. We monitor our capital expenditures on a regular basis, adjusting the amount up or down and also between our operating regions, depending on commodity prices, cash flow and projected returns. Also, our obligations may change due to acquisitions, divestitures and continued growth. We may issue additional shares of stock, subordinated notes or other debt securities to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, extend maturities or to repay debt. Cash Dividend Payments The amount of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and primarily depends on earnings and capital expenditures. In 2008, we paid $24.6 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in each quarter). In 2007, we paid $19.1 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.03 per share in the third, second and first quarters). In 2006, we paid $12.2 million in dividends to our common stockholders ($0.03 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.02 per share in the third, second and first quarters). Cash Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations include long term debt, operating leases, drilling commitments, derivative obligations, other liabilities and transportation commitments. As of December 31, 2008, we do not have any capital leases nor have we entered into any material long term contracts for equipment. As of December 31, 2008, we do not have any significant off balance sheet debt or other such unrecorded obligations and we have not guaranteed the debt of any unrelated party. The table below provides estimates of the timing of future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place at December 31, 2008. In addition to the contractual obligations listed on the table below, our balance sheet at December 31, 2008 reflects accrued interest payable on our bank debt of $779,000 which is payable in first quarter 2009. We expect to make interest payments of $9.6 million per year on our 6.375% senior subordinated notes, $14.8 million per year on our 7.375% senior subordinated notes, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 and $18.1 million per year on our 7.25% senior subordinated notes. 35 Table of Contents The following summarizes our contractual financial obligations at December 31, 2008 and their future maturities. We expect to fund these contractual obligations with cash generated from operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility and proceeds from asset sales. Payment due by period 2010 and 2012 and 2009 2011 2013 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Bank debt due 2012 $ $ $ 693,000 (a) $ $ 693,000 7.375% senior subordinated notes due 2013 200,000 200,000 6.375% senior subordinated notes due 2015 150,000 150,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016 250,000 250,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 250,000 250,000 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2018 250,000 250,000 Other debt 105 105 Operating leases 10,284 19,479 9,585 9,257 48,605 Drilling rig commitments 26,850 116,800 31,685 175,335 Transportation commitments 17,369 32,995 25,861 69,145 145,370 Seismic agreements 900 900 1,800 Derivative obligations (b) 10 10 Asset retirement obligation liability (c) 2,055 10,197 1,233 69,972 83,457 Total contractual obligations (d) $ 57,468 $ 180,371 $ 961,469 $ 1,048,374 $ 2,247,682 (a) Due at termination date of our bank credit facility. We expect to renew our bank credit facility, but there is no assurance that can be accomplished. Interest paid on our bank credit facility would be approximately $20.1 million each year assuming no change in the interest rate or outstanding balance. (b) Derivative obligations represent net open derivative contracts valued as of December 31, 2008. While such payments will be funded by higher prices received from the sale of our production, production receipts may be received after our payments to counterparties, which can result in borrowings under our bank credit facility. (c) The ultimate settlement and timing cannot be precisely determined in advance. (d) This table excludes the liability for the deferred compensation plans since these obligations will be funded with existing plan assets. In addition to the amounts included in the above table, we have contracted with a pipeline company through 2017 to deliver natural gas production volumes in Appalachia from certain Marcellus Shale wells. The agreement calls for incremental increases over the initial 40,000 Mmbtu per day. These increases, which are contingent on certain pipeline modifications, are for 30,000 Mmbtu per day in March 2009, 30,000 Mmbtu per day in October 2009, 30,000 Mmbtu per day March 2010 and an additional 20,000 Mmbtu per day for July 2010 for a total increase of 110,000 Mmbtu per day. Delivery Commitments Under a sales agreement with Enterprise Products Operating, LLC, we have an obligation to deliver 30,000 Mmbtu per day of volume at various delivery points within the Barnett Shale basin. The contract, which began in 2008, extends for five years ending March 2013. As of December 31, 2008, remaining volumes to be delivered under this commitment are approximately 46.5 bcf. Hedging Oil and Gas Prices We use commodity based derivative contracts to manage exposure to commodity price fluctuations. We do not enter into these arrangements for speculative or trading purposes. These contracts consist of collars and fixed price swaps. We do not utilize complex derivatives such as swaptions, knockouts or extendable swaps. While there is a risk that the financial benefit of rising oil and gas prices may not be captured, we believe the benefits of stable and predictable cash flow are more important. Among these benefits are a more efficient utilization of existing personnel and planning for future staff additions, the flexibility to enter into long term projects requiring substantial committed capital, smoother and more efficient execution of our ongoing development drilling and production enhancement programs, more consistent returns on invested capital, and better access to bank and other credit markets. At December 31, 2008, swaps were in place covering 25.6 Bcf of gas at prices averaging $8.38 per mcf. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas at weighted average floor and cap prices of $8.28 to $9.27 and 2.9 million barrels of oil at weighted average floor and cap prices of $64.01 to $76.00. Their fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be 36 Table of Contents realized or payable on termination, based on a comparison of the contract price and a reference price, generally NYMEX, approximated a pretax gain of $214.2 million at December 31, 2008. The contracts expire monthly through December 2009. At December 31, 2008, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Average Hedge Price Natural Gas 2009 Swaps 70,000 Mmbtu/day $8.38 2009 Collars 150,000 Mmbtu/day $8.28 $9.27 Crude Oil 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $64.01 $76.00 In addition to the swaps and collars above, we have entered into basis swap agreements. The price we receive for our production can be less than NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net unrealized pre tax gain of $12.4 million at December 31, 2008. Interest Rates At December 31, 2008, we had $1.8 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $1.1 billion bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $693.0 million bears interest at floating rates, which averaged 2.9% at year end 2008. The 30 day LIBOR rate on December 31, 2008 was 0.4%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 would cost us approximately $6.9 million in additional annual interest expense. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently utilize any off balance sheet arrangements with unconsolidated entities to enhance our liquidity or capital resource position, or for any other purpose. However, as is customary in the oil and gas industry, we have various contractual work commitments as described above under cash contractual obligations. Inflation and Changes in Prices Our revenues, the value of our assets and our ability to obtain bank loans or additional capital on attractive terms have been and will continue to be affected by changes in oil and gas prices and the costs to produce our reserves. Oil and gas prices are subject to significant fluctuations that are beyond our ability to control or predict. In a trend that began in the fourth quarter of 2008 and has continued into 2009, the industry has experienced deteriorating basis differentials in the Mid Continent and West Texas areas primarily caused by an over supply of gas in these regions. Although certain of our costs and expenses are affected by general inflation, inflation does not normally have a significant effect on our business. In a trend that began in 2004 and accelerated through the middle of 2008, commodity prices for oil and gas increased significantly. The higher prices have led to increased activity in the industry and, consequently, rising costs. These cost trends have put pressure not only on our operating costs but also on our capital costs. Due to the decline in commodity prices in the last half of 2008, we expect these costs to moderate in 2009. 37 Table of Contents The following table indicates the average oil and gas prices received over the last five years and quarterly for 2008, 2007 and 2006. Average price calculations exclude all derivative settlements whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Oil is converted to natural gas equivalent at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Average Sales Prices (Wellhead) Average NYMEX Prices (a) Crude Natural Equivalent Crude Natural Oil Gas Mcf Oil Gas (Per bbl) (Per mcf) (Per mcfe) (Per bbl) (Per mcf) Annual 2008 $ 96.77 $ 8.07 $ 9.14 $ 100.47 $ 8.91 2007 67.47 6.54 7.37 72.34 6.92 2006 62.36 6.59 7.25 66.22 7.26 2005 53.30 8.00 7.99 56.56 8.55 2004 39.20 5.80 5.79 41.41 6.09 Quarterly 2008 First $ 94.65 $ 7.85 $ 8.96 $ 97.90 $ 8.07 Second 120.27 10.09 11.48 123.98 10.80 Third 113.91 9.72 10.90 117.83 10.08 Fourth 55.09 4.86 5.43 58.79 6.82 2007 First $ 56.01 $ 6.41 $ 6.88 $ 58.27 $ 6.96 Second 62.20 6.95 7.57 65.03 7.56 Third 70.51 5.97 7.01 75.38 6.13 Fourth 82.12 6.80 7.94 90.68 7.03 2006 First $ 59.74 $ 8.33 $ 8.41 $ 63.48 $ 9.07 Second 65.36 6.28 7.17 70.70 6.82 Third 64.53 6.12 7.00 70.48 6.53 Fourth 59.80 5.91 6.58 60.21 6.62 (a) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. Debt Ratings We receive debt credit ratings from Standard Poors Ratings Group, Inc. (SP) and Moodys Investor Services, Inc. (Moodys), which are subject to regular reviews. SPs rating for us is BB with a stable outlook. Moodys rating for us is Ba2 with a stable outlook. We believe that SP and Moodys consider many factors in determining our ratings including: production growth opportunities, liquidity, debt levels, asset, and proved reserve mix. We also believe that the rating agencies take into consideration our size, corporate structure, the complexity of our capital structure and organization, and history of how we have chosen to finance our growth. We believe that our simple balance sheet, singular line of business, and practice of funding our growth with a balanced mix of long term debt and common equity positively impact our ratings. In addition to qualitative and quantitative factors unique to Range, we believe that the rating agencies consider various macro economic factors such as the projected future price of oil and gas, trends in industry service costs, and global supply and demand for energy. Based upon the factors influencing our credit ratings which are within our control, we are not currently aware of any reason why our credit rating would change materially from the present ratings. A reduction in our debt ratings could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing or the interest rate, fees and other terms associated with such additional financing. 38 Table of Contents Managements Discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used. Certain accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (a) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the level of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to changes; and (b) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Oil and Gas Properties We use the successful efforts method to account for exploration and development expenditures. Unsuccessful exploration drilling costs are expensed and can have a significant effect on reported operating results. Successful exploration drilling costs and all development costs are capitalized and systematically charged to expense using the units of production method based on proved developed oil and gas reserves as estimated by our engineers and reviewed by independent engineers. Costs incurred for exploratory wells that find reserves that cannot yet be classified as proved are capitalized on our balance sheet if (a) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and (b) we are making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Proven property leasehold costs are amortized to expense using the units of production method based on total proved reserves. Properties are assessed for impairment as circumstances warrant (at least annually) and impairments to value are charged to expense. The successful efforts method inherently relies upon the estimation of proved reserves, which includes proved developed and proved undeveloped volumes. Proved reserves are defined by the SEC as those volumes of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed reserves are volumes expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Although our engineers are knowledgeable of and follow the guidelines for reserves established by the SEC, the estimation of reserves requires engineers to make a significant number of assumptions based on professional judgment. Reserve estimates are updated at least annually and consider recent production levels and other technical information. Estimated reserves are often subject to future revisions, which could be substantial, based on the availability of additional information, including: reservoir performance, new geological and geophysical data, additional drilling, technological advancements, price and cost changes and other economic factors. Changes in oil and gas prices can lead to a decision to start up or shut in production, which can lead to revisions to reserve quantities. Reserve revisions in turn cause adjustments in the depletion rates used by us. We cannot predict what reserve revisions may be required in future periods. Reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering who reports directly to our President. To further ensure the reliability of our reserve estimates, we engage independent petroleum consultants to review our estimates of proved reserves. Independent petroleum consultants reviewed 87% of our reserves in 2008 compared to 86% in 2007 and 2006. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. The reserves included in this report are those reserves estimated by our employees. Depletion rates are determined based on reserve quantity estimates and the capitalized costs of producing properties. As the estimated reserves are adjusted, the depletion expense for a property will change, assuming no change in production volumes or the capitalized costs. While total depletion expense for the life of a property is limited to the propertys total cost, proved reserve revisions result in a change in timing when depletion expense is recognized. Downward revisions of proved reserves result in an acceleration of depletion expense, while upward revisions tend to lower the rate of depletion expense 39 Table of Contents recognition. Based on proved reserves at December 31, 2008, we estimate that a 1% change in proved reserves would increase or decrease 2009 depletion expense by approximately $3.0 million (assuming a 10% production increase). Estimated reserves are used as the basis for calculating the expected future cash flows from a property, which are used to determine whether that property may be impaired. Reserves are also used to estimate the supplemental disclosure of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil and gas producing activities and reserve quantities in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. Changes in the estimated reserves are considered in estimates for accounting purposes and are reflected on a prospective basis. We monitor our long lived assets recorded in property, plant and equipment in our consolidated balance sheet to ensure they are fairly presented. We must evaluate our properties for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset could exceed its fair value. A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these evaluations since the results are based on estimated future events. Such events include a projection of future oil and gas sales prices, an estimate of the ultimate amount of recoverable oil and gas reserves that will be produced from a field, the timing of future production, future production costs, future abandonment costs, and future inflation. The need to test a property for impairment can be based on several factors, including a significant reduction in sales prices for oil and or gas, unfavorable adjustments to reserves, physical damage to production equipment and facilities, a change in costs, or other changes to contracts or environmental regulations. All of these factors must be considered when testing a propertys carrying value for impairment. The review is done by determining if the historical cost of proved properties less the applicable accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization is less than the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows. The expected future net cash flows are estimated based on our plans to produce and develop proved reserves. Expected future net cash inflow from the sale of production of reserves is calculated based on estimated future prices and estimated operating and development costs. We estimate prices based upon market related information including published futures prices. The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions surrounding future levels of prices and costs, field decline rates, market demand and supply, the economic and regulatory climates. When the carrying value exceeds the sum of future net cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the estimated fair market value (as determined by discounted future net cash flows) and the carrying value of the asset. We cannot predict whether impairment charges may be required in the future. Our historical impairment of producing properties has been $74.9 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2004, $31.1 million in 2001, $29.9 million in 1999 and $214.7 million in 1998. We believe that a sensitivity analysis regarding the effect of changes in assumptions on estimated impairment is impractical to provide because of the number of assumptions and variables involved which have interdependent effects on the potential outcome. We are required to develop estimates of fair value to allocate purchase prices paid to acquire businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price paid to acquire a business is allocated to its assets and liabilities based on the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. We use all available information to make these fair value determinations. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for information on these acquisitions. We adhere to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies, for recognizing any impairment of capitalized costs to unproved properties. The greatest portion of these costs generally relate to the acquisition of leaseholds. The costs are capitalized and periodically evaluated (at least quarterly) as to recoverability, based on changes brought about by economic factors and potential shifts in business strategy employed by management. We consider a combination of time, geologic and engineering factors to evaluate the need for impairment of these costs. Unproved properties had a net book value of $766.2 million in 2008 compared to $271.4 million in 2007 and $226.3 million in 2006. We have recorded abandonment and impairment expense related to unproved properties of $47.9 million in 2008 compared to $6.8 million in 2007 and $257,000 in 2006. Oil and Gas Derivatives We enter into derivative contracts to mitigate our exposure to commodity price risk associated with future oil and gas production. These contracts have historically consisted of options, in the form of collars, and fixed price swaps. Every derivative instrument is required to be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or a liability measured at its fair value. We record these values on our balance sheet as either Unrealized derivative gains or Unrealized derivative losses. If a derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of effective portion are recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the balance sheet, which is later transferred to earnings when the hedged transaction occurs. Realized gains or losses of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are included in oil and gas sales in our statement of operations. Oil and gas sales include $63.6 million of losses in 2008 compared to gains of $4.2 million in 2007 and losses of $93.2 million in 2006. 40 Table of Contents Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges but are, to a degree, an economic offset of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method, all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts are recognized in our consolidated statement of operations under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). As of December 31, 2008, derivatives for 40.1 Bcfe no longer qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting. We have also entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting and are also marked to market. The price we receive for our gas production can be less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location, or basis, relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreement that effectively fix our basis adjustments for a portion of our production. On January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157 for those financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value in our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. It does not require us to make any new fair value measurements, but rather establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their value. Hierarchical levels defined by SFAS No. 157 and directly related to the amount of subjectivity associated with the inputs to fair valuation of these assets and liabilities are as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date. Level 2 Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1, which are directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date. Level 2 includes those financial instruments that are valued using models or other valuation methodologies. These models are primarily industry standard models that consider assumptions, including quoted forward prices for commodities, time value, volatility factors and current market and contractual prices for underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economics measures. Our derivatives, which consist primarily of commodity swaps and collars, are valued using commodity market data, which is derived by combining raw inputs and quantitative models and processes to generate forward curves. Where observable inputs are available, directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, the instrument is categorized in Level 2. Level 3 Pricing inputs include significant inputs that are generally less observable from objective sources. These inputs may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in managements best estimate of fair value. At December 31, 2008, we have no Level 3 measurements. For Range, the primary impact from the adoption of SFAS No. 157 at January 1, 2008 related to the fair value measurement of our marketable securities held in our deferred compensation plan and the fair value measurement of our derivative instruments. FSP FAS 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157, deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for one year for certain non financial asset and non financial liabilities, which for us includes the initial measurement of asset retirement obligations. We will adopt SFAS 157 for non financial assets and liabilities effective January 1, 2009 and it is not expected to have a significant impact on our reported financial position or earnings. We use a market approach for our value measurements. The assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our trading securities in Level 1 are exchange traded and measured at fair value with a market approach using December 31, 2008 market values. Our commodity derivatives in Level 2 are measured using third party pricing services which have been corroborated with data from active markets or broker quotes. Our exposure is diversified among major investment grade financial institutions and we have master netting agreements with the majority of our counterparties that provide for offsetting payables against receivables from separate derivative contracts. Our derivative counterparties include twelve financial institutions, ten of which are secured lenders in our bank credit facility. We have two counterparties that are not part of our bank group and three counterparties in our bank group with no master netting agreements. Mitsui Co. and J. Aron Company are the two counterparties not in our bank group. At December 31, 2008, our net derivative receivable includes a receivable from J. Aron Company of $987,000 and a receivable from Mitsui Co. of $18.0 million. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, counterparty credit risk is considered when determining the fair value of our derivative contracts. While our counterparties are major investment grade financial institutions, the fair value of our derivative contracts have been adjusted to account for the risk of non performance by the counterparty, which was immaterial. 41 Table of Contents Asset Retirement Obligations We have significant obligations to remove tangible equipment and restore land at the end of oil and gas production operations. Removal and restoration obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells. Estimating the future asset removal costs is difficult and requires us to make estimates and judgments because most of the removal obligations are many years in the future and contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what constitutes removal. Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are regulatory, political, environmental, safety and public relations considerations. Inherent in the fair value calculation are numerous assumptions and judgments including the ultimate retirement costs, inflation factors, credit adjusted discount rates, timing of retirement, and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and political environments. To the extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present value of the existing asset retirement obligation, (ARO), a corresponding adjustment is made to the oil and gas property balance. For example, as we analyze actual plugging and abandonment information, we may revise our estimate of current costs, the assumed annual inflation of the costs and or the assumed productive lives of our wells. During 2008, we increased our existing estimated asset retirement obligation by $2.4 million or approximately 3% of the asset retirement obligation at December 31, 2007. In addition, increases in the discounted ARO liability resulting from the passage of time are reflected as accretion expense, a component of depletion, depreciation and amortization in our consolidated statement of operations. Because of the subjectivity of assumptions and the relatively long lives of most of our wells, the costs to ultimately retire our wells may vary significantly from prior estimates. We do not provide for a market risk premium because a reliable estimate cannot be determined. Deferred Taxes We are subject to income and other taxes in all areas in which we operate. When recording income tax expense, certain estimates are required because income tax returns are generally filed many months after the close of a calendar year, tax returns are subject to audit, which can take years to complete, and future events often impact the timing of when income tax expenses and benefits are recognized. We have deferred tax assets relating to tax operating loss carryforwards and other deductible differences. We routinely evaluate deferred tax assets to determine the likelihood of realization. A valuation allowance is recognized on deferred tax assets when we believe that certain of these assets are not likely to be realized. In determining deferred tax liabilities, accounting rules require accumulated other comprehensive income to be considered, even though such income or loss has not yet been earned. At year end 2008, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $816.4 million, with $44.7 million of deferred tax liabilities related to unrealized hedging gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income. At year end 2007, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $563.9 million, with $16.3 million of deferred tax assets related to unrealized hedging losses included in OCI. We may be challenged by taxing authorities over the amount and or timing of recognition of revenues and deductions in our various income tax returns. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for all taxes, gains or losses could occur in the future due to changes in estimates or resolution of outstanding tax matters. Contingent Liabilities A provision for legal, environmental and other contingent matters is charged to expense when the loss is probable and the cost or range of cost can be reasonably estimated. Judgment is often required to determine when expenses should be recorded for legal, environmental and contingent matters. In addition, we often must estimate the amount of such losses. In many cases, our judgment is based on the input of our legal advisors and on the interpretation of laws and regulations, which can be interpreted differently by regulators and or the courts. We monitor known and potential legal, environmental and other contingent matters and make our best estimate of when to record losses for these matters based on available information. Although we continue to monitor all contingencies closely, particularly our outstanding litigation, we currently have no material accruals for contingent liabilities. Revenue Recognition Oil, gas and natural gas liquids are recognized when the products are sold and delivery to the purchaser has occurred. We use the sales method to account for gas imbalances, recognizing revenue based on gas delivered rather than our working interest share of gas produced. We recognize the cost of revenues, such as transportation and compression expense, as a reduction of revenue. 42 Table of Contents Stock based Compensation We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. We previously accounted for stock awards under the recognition and measurement principles of ABB No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations. Prior to January 1, 2006 stock based employee compensation for restricted stock was reflected in our statement of operations, but no compensation expense was recognized for stock options granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method. Under the modified prospective application method, we have applied the standards to awards made after adoption. Additionally, compensation cost for the unvested portion of stock awards outstanding as of January 1, 2006 has been recognized as compensation expense as the requisite service is rendered after January 1, 2006. We recognize stock based compensation on a straight line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. The expense we recognize is net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate our forfeiture rate based on prior experience and adjust it as circumstances warrant. The Compensation Committee grants restricted stock to certain employees and to non employee directors of the Board of Directors as part of their compensation. Compensation expense is recognized over the balance of the vesting period, which is typically three years for employee grants and immediate vesting for non employee directors. All restricted shares that are granted are placed in the deferred compensation plan. All vested restricted stock held in our deferred compensation plan is marked to market each reporting period based on the market value of our stock. This mark to market is presented in the caption deferred compensation plan in our statement of operations. See additional information in Note 12. The fair value of stock options and stock settled SARs is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. The model employs various assumptions, based on managements best estimates at the time of the grant, which impact the fair value calculated and ultimately, the expense that is recognized over the life of the award. The fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted In June 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position No. EITF 03 6 1 Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions are Participating Securities, (FSP EITF 03 6 1) which provides that unvested share based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share under the two class method. FSP EITF 03 6 1 is effective for us January 1, 2009 and all prior period EPS data (including any amounts related to interim periods, summaries of earnings and selected financial data) will be adjusted retroactively to conform to its provisions. Early application of FSP EITF 03 6 1 is not permitted. Although restricted stock awards meet this definition, we do not expect the application of FSP 03 6 1 to have a significant impact on our reported earnings per share. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosure about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133 with the intent to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of: (i) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; (ii) how derivative instruments and related hedge items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations; and (iii) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for us January 1, 2009 and will only impact future disclosure about our derivative instruments and hedging activities. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) replaces SFAS No. 141. The statement retains the purchase method of accounting for acquisitions, but requires a number of changes, including changes in the way assets and liabilities are recognized in the purchase accounting. It changes the recognition of assets acquired and liabilities assumed arising from contingencies, requires the capitalization of in process research and development at fair value, and requires the expensing of acquisition related costs as incurred. The statement will apply prospectively to business combinations occurring in our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2009. The effect of adopting SFAS No. 141(R) is not expected to have an effect on our reported financial position or earnings. ITEM 7A. QUANTITIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil and gas prices and interest rates. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, 43 Table of Contents but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposure. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. All accounts are US dollar denominated. Financial Market Risk The debt and equity markets have recently exhibited adverse conditions. The unprecedented volatility and upheaval in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing debt instruments due to increased spreads over relevant interest rate benchmarks and may affect our ability to access those markets. At this point, we do not believe our liquidity has been materially affected by the recent events in the global markets and we do not expect our liquidity to be materially impacted in the near future. We will continue to monitor our liquidity and the capital markets. Additionally, we will continue to monitor events and circumstances surrounding each of our twenty six lenders in the bank credit facility. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors. Market Risk Our major market risk is exposure to oil and gas prices. Realized prices are primarily driven by worldwide prices for oil and spot market prices for North American gas production. Oil and gas prices have been volatile and unpredictable for many years. Commodity Price Risk We periodically enter into derivative arrangements with respect to our oil and gas production. These arrangements are intended to reduce the impact of oil and gas price fluctuations. Certain of our derivatives are swaps where we receive a fixed price for our production and pay market prices to the counterparty. Our derivatives program also includes collars, which establish a minimum floor price and a predetermined ceiling price. As of December 31, 2008, we had oil and gas swaps in place covering 25.6 Bcf of gas. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas and 2.9 million barrels of oil. These contracts expire monthly through December 2009. The fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized upon immediate liquidation as of December 31, 2008, approximated a net unrealized pre tax gain of $214.2 million. At December 31, 2008, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Average Fair Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Hedge Price Market Value (in thousands) Natural Gas 2009 Swaps 70,000 Mmbtu/day $8.38 $ 57,280 2009 Collars 150,000 Mmbtu/day $8.28 $9.27 $ 121,781 Crude Oil 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $64.01 $76.00 $ 35,166 Other Commodity Risk We are impacted by basis risk, caused by factors that affect the relationship between commodity futures prices reflected in derivative commodity instruments and the cash market price of the underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices experienced in local markets. If commodity price changes in one region are not reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased basis risk. In addition to the collars and swaps above, we have entered into basis swap agreements. The price we receive for our gas production can be more or less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net realized pre tax gain of $12.4 million at December 31, 2008. 44 Table of Contents The following table shows the fair value of our swaps and collars and the hypothetical change in fair value that would result from a 10% change in commodities prices at December 31, 2008. The hypothetical change in fair value would be a gain or loss depending on whether prices increase or decrease (in thousands): Hypothetical Change in Fair Value Fair Value Swaps $ 57,280 $ 15,000 Collars $ 156,947 $ 45,000 Our commodity based contracts expose us to the credit risk of non performance by the counterparty to the contracts. Our exposure is diversified among major investment grade financial institutions and we have master netting agreements with the majority of our counterparties that provide for offsetting payables against receivables from separate derivative contracts. Our derivative counterparties include twelve financial institutions, ten of which are secured lenders in our bank credit facility. We have two counterparties that are not part of our bank group and three counterparties in our bank group with no master netting agreement. Mitsui Co. and J. Aron Company are the two counterparties not in our bank group. At December 31, 2008, our net derivative receivable includes a receivable from J. Aron Company of $987,000 and a receivable from Mitsui Co. of $18.0 million. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, counterparty credit risk is considered when determining the fair value of our derivative contracts. While counterparties are major investment grade financial institutions, the fair value of our derivative contracts have been adjusted to account for the risk of non performance by counterparty, which was immaterial. Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to interest rate risk on our bank debt. We attempt to balance variable rate debt, fixed rate debt and debt maturities to manage interest costs, interest rate volatility and financing risk. This is accomplished through a mix of fixed rate senior subordinated debt and variable rate bank debt. At December 31, 2008, we had $1.8 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $1.1 billion bears interest at a fixed rate averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $693.0 million bears interest at floating rates, which was 2.9% on that date. On December 31, 2008, the 30 day LIBOR rate was 0.4%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 would cost us approximately $6.9 million in additional annual interest expense. The fair value of our subordinated debt is based on year end quoted market prices. The following table presents information on these fair values (in thousands): Carrying Fair Value Value Fixed rate debt: Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 $ 197,968 $ 181,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 150,000 121,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 6.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 249,595 212,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 250,000 209,375 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 250,000 206,250 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.25%) $ 1,097,563 $ 931,125 45 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Proximity to local markets, availability of competitive fuels and overall supply and demand are factors affecting the prices for which our production can be sold. Market volatility due to international political developments, overall energy supply and demand, fluctuating weather conditions, economic growth rates and other factors in the United States and worldwide have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on energy prices. We incur gathering and transportation expenses to move our natural gas and crude oil from the wellhead and tanks to purchaser specified delivery points. These expenses vary based on volume, distance shipped and the fee charged by the third party transporters. In the Southwestern and Gulf Coast Areas, our gas and oil production is transported primarily through third party trucks, field gathering systems and transmission pipelines. Transportation capacity on these gathering systems and 5 Table of Contents pipelines is occasionally constrained. In Appalachia, we own approximately 5,255 miles of gas gathering pipelines, which transport both a majority of our Appalachian gas production and third party gas to transmission lines and directly to end users, and interstate pipelines. For additional information, see Risk Factors Our business depends on oil and gas transportation facilities, many of which are owned by others, in Item 1A of this report. Governmental Regulation Our operations are substantially affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations. In particular, oil and gas production and related operations are, or have been, subject to price controls, taxes and numerous other laws and regulations. All of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate producing crude oil and natural gas properties have statutory provisions regulating the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas, including provisions related to permits for the drilling of wells, bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, and the abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells which may be drilled in an area, and the unitization or pooling of crude oil and natural gas wells, as well as regulations that generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individual wells. In August 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005). Among other matters, the EPAct 2005 amends the Natural Gas Act (NGA), to make it unlawful for any entity, including otherwise non jurisdictional producers such as Range, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), in contravention of rules prescribed by the FERC. On January 20, 2006, the FERC issued rules implementing this provision. The rules make it unlawful in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit any such statement necessary to make the statements not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1,000,000 per day per violation. The new anti manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non jurisdictional sale or gathering, but does apply to activities or otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction. It therefore reflects a significant expansion of FERCs enforcement authority. Range does not anticipate it will be affected any differently than other producers of natural gas. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, such laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil and gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the FERC, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. On December 26, 2007, FERC issued a final rule on the annual natural gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing (Order 704). Under Order 704, wholesale buyers and sellers of more than 2.2 million MMBtus of physical natural gas in the previous calendar year, including natural gas gatherers and marketers, are now required to report, on May 1 of each year beginning in 2009, aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to the formation of price indices. It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. Order 704 also requires market participants to indicate whether they report prices to any index publishers, and if so, whether their reporting complies with FERCs policy statement on price reporting. On November 20, 2008, FERC issued a final rule on the daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements (Order 720). Under Order 720, major non interstate pipelines, defined as certain non interstate pipelines delivering, on an annual basis, more than an average of 50 million MMBtus of gas over the previous three calendar years, are required to post daily certain information regarding the pipelines capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has a design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. Requests for clarification and rehearing of Order 720 have been filed at FERC and a decision on those requests is pending. 6 Table of Contents Environmental and Occupational Matters Our operations are subject to numerous stringent federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection, some of which carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, production and transporting through pipelines, govern the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, limit or prohibit drilling activities in certain areas and on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier and other protected areas, require some form of remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen pits and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations or failure to comply with regulatory filings. In addition, these laws and regulations may restrict the rate of production. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (CERCLA), also known as the Superfund law, and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons may include owners or operators of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, all of these persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties, pursuant to environmental statutes, common law or both, to file claims for personal injury and property damages allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants into the environment. Although petroleum, including crude oil and natural gas, is not a hazardous substance under CERCLA, at least two courts have ruled that certain wastes associated with the production of crude oil may be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA and that releases of such wastes may therefore give rise to liability under CERCLA. While we generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances, we have not received notification that we may be potentially responsible for cleanup costs under CERCLA or comparable state laws. Other state laws regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes, and new state and federal legislative initiatives that could have a significant impact on us may periodically be proposed and enacted. We also may incur liability under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended (RCRA), which imposes requirements related to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. While there is an exclusion from the definition of hazardous wastes for drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy, these wastes may be regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or state agencies as non hazardous solid waste. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils, can be regulated as hazardous wastes. Although the costs of managing wastes classified as hazardous waste may be significant, we do not expect to experience more burdensome costs than similarly situated companies. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other locations where such materials have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes was not under our control. These properties and the materials disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state laws and regulations. Under such laws and regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), and comparable state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other oil and gas wastes, into federal and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or the state. These laws and any implementing regulations provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for any unauthorized discharges of oil and other substances in reportable quantities and may impose substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and maintain approvals or permits for the discharge of wastewater or storm water and are required to develop and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans, also referred to as SPCC plans, in connection with on site storage of greater than threshold quantities of oil. We are currently undertaking a review of recently acquired oil and gas properties to determine the need for new or updated SPCC plans and, where necessary, we will be developing or upgrading such plans, the costs of which are not expected to be substantial. 7 Table of Contents The Clean Air Act, as amended, and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including compressor stations. These laws and any implementing regulations may require us to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent air permit requirements, or use specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. While we may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next few years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits addressing other air emission related issues, we do not believe that such requirements will have a material adverse effect on our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations sometimes occur, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements for any substances used or produced in our operations could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those of the oil and gas industry in general. For instance, recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and more than one third of the states, either individually or through multi state initiatives already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. As an alternative to reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, the Congress may consider the implementation of a program to tax the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. Also, the U.S. Supreme Courts holding in its 2007 decision, Massachusetts, et. al. v. EPA, that carbon dioxide may be regulated as an air pollutant under the federal Clean Air Act could result in future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources, even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. In July 2008, EPA released an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. Although the notice did not propose any specific new regulatory requirements for greenhouse gases, it indicates that federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could occur in the near future. It is possible that new laws or regulations could establish a greenhouse cap and trade program, whereby major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries or gas processing plants, would be required to acquire and surrender emission allowances. While we do not operate stationary sources that emit significant quantities of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, we do utilize gas processing plants to process the natural gas that we produce and, thus if such processors were to incur increased costs to acquire and surrender emission allowances or otherwise to capture and dispose of greenhouse gases, it is possible that these costs, which might be significant, could be passed along to us as well as similarly situated producers. Moreover, any adoption of a program to tax the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases potentially could be imposed on us and other similarly situated producers of natural gas. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business or demand for our products. Given the possible impact of legislation and or regulation of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, we have considered and expect to continue to consider the impact of laws or regulations intended to address climate change on our operations. We do not believe our operations require reporting or monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions under existing laws and regulations; however, we do operate mobile equipment in the normal course of our business that emits carbon dioxide as well as some stationary engines that power compressors and pumping equipment. Methane is a primary constituent of natural gas and, like all oil and gas exploration and production companies, we produce significant quantities of natural gas; however, such production of natural gas, including its constituent hydrocarbon including methane, is gathered and transported in pipelines under pressure and we therefore do not emit significant quantities of methane in connection with our operations. Given our lack of significant points of carbon dioxide emissions, we have focused most of our efforts on physical environmental ground, water and air issues in our operations We are also subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended (OSHA), and comparable state laws that regulate the protection of the health and safety of employees. In addition, OSHAs hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with the OSHA requirements. In summary, we believe we are in substantial compliance with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with environmental requirements, there is no assurance that this will continue. We did not have any material capital or other non recurring expenditures in connection with complying with environmental laws or environmental remediation matters in 2008, nor do we anticipate that such expenditures will be material in 2009. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. Risks Related to Our Business Volatility of oil and gas prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources and could hamper our ability to produce oil and gas economically 8 Table of Contents Oil and gas prices are volatile, and a decline in prices adversely affects our profitability and financial condition. Higher oil and gas prices have contributed to our positive earnings over the last several years. The oil and gas industry is typically cyclical, and prices for oil and gas have been highly volatile. Historically, the industry has experienced severe downturns characterized by oversupply and or weak demand. Long term supply and demand for oil and gas is uncertain and subject to a myriad of factors such as: the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; the price and availability of alternative fuels; weather conditions; the level of consumer demand; the price of foreign imports; worldwide economic conditions; the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities and processing facilities; the effect of worldwide energy conservation efforts; political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes. The recent decreases in oil and gas prices have adversely affected our revenues, net income, cash flow and proved reserves. Significant price decreases could have a material adverse effect on our operations and limit our ability to fund capital expenditures. Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves and production. Sustained decreases in oil and gas prices will further adversely affect our revenues, net income, cash flows, proved reserves and our ability to fund capital expenditures. Information concerning our reserves and future net reserve estimates is uncertain There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved reserves are by their nature uncertain. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could be material. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of oil and gas reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated: the amount and timing of oil and gas production; the revenues and costs associated with that production; and the amount and timing of future development expenditures. The discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves included in this report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based generally on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general. If oil and gas prices decrease or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to record write downs of our oil and gas properties We have been in the past and were in 2008, required to write down the carrying value of certain of our oil and gas properties, and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional write downs in the future. Writedowns may occur when oil and gas prices are low, or if we have downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our 9 Table of Contents estimates of operating or development costs, deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where the cost to redrill or repair does not justify the expense. Accounting rules require that the carrying value of oil and gas properties be periodically reviewed for possible impairment. Impairment is recognized when the book value of a proven property is greater than the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that property and on acreage when conditions indicate the carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required to write down the carrying value of a property based on oil and gas prices at the time of the impairment review, or as a result of continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data, economics and other factors. While an impairment charge reflects our long term ability to recover an investment, it does not impact cash or cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce our reported earnings and increases our leverage ratios. Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flow from operations, our bank credit facility and debt and equity issuances. From time to time, we have also engaged in asset monetization transactions. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and gas and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If our access to capital were limited due to numerous factors which could include a decrease in revenues due to lower gas and oil prices or decreased production or deterioration of the credit and capital markets, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves. We may not be able to incur additional bank debt, issue debt or equity, engage in asset monetization or access other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet our reserve replacement requirements. The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The recent decline in oil and gas prices has adversely impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. If commodity prices continue to decline in 2009, it will have similar adverse effects on our reserves and borrowing base. Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce Because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire and produce additional oil and gas reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future oil and gas production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital resources depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing operations will also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue additional acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase, both to complete such acquisitions and to explore and develop any newly acquired properties. The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations; a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage; our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the general economy; we are subject to numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our existing credit agreements the breach of which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance; our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future. 10 Table of Contents Despite our current levels of indebtedness, we still may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further increase the risks described above. In addition to those risks above, we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Our business is subject to operating hazards that could result in substantial losses or liabilities that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies Oil and gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic natural gas and other environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of: injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution or other environmental damage; clean up responsibilities; regulatory investigations and penalties; or suspension of operations. As we drill to deeper horizons and in more geologically complex areas, we could experience a greater increase in operating and financial risks due to inherent higher reservoir pressures and unknown downhole risk exposures. As we continue to drill deeper, the number of rigs capable of drilling to such depths will be fewer and we may experience greater competition from other operators. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. We have experienced substantial increases in premiums, especially in areas affected by hurricanes and tropical storms. Insurers have imposed revised limits affecting how much the insurers will pay on actual storm claims plus the cost to re drill wells where substantial damage has been incurred. Insurers are also requiring us to retain larger deductibles and reducing the scope of what insurable losses will include. Even with the increase in future insurance premiums, coverage will be reduced, requiring us to bear a greater potential risk if our oil and gas properties are damaged. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in our credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, at December 31, 2008, approximately 61% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the remaining 39% subject to variable interest rates. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global finance markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital; a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We are exposed to some credit risk related to our senior credit facility to the extent that one or more of our lenders may be unable to provide necessary funding to us under our existing revolving line of credit if it experiences liquidity problems. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic capital markets and the economy generally. The stress experienced by domestic capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during third quarter 2008. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to 11 Table of Contents increased volatility and diminished expectations of the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil and gas prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown. In addition, the fixed income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. The capital markets have experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probabilities of default. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us because our liquidity and ability to fund our capital expenditures is dependent in part upon our bank borrowings and access to the public capital markets. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as a worsening of the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks To manage our exposure to price risk, we, from time to time, enter into hedging arrangements, utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a significant portion of our future production. The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices rise above the price established by the hedge. In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: our production is less than expected; the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or an event materially impacts oil or gas prices or the relationship between the hedged price index and the oil and gas sales price. We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will adequately protect us from declines in the prices of oil and gas. On the other hand, where we choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in oil and gas prices than our competitors who engage in hedging transactions. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our business and marketing oil and gas. Competitors include multinational oil companies, independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or weather industry downturns more easily than we can. The demand for field services and their ability to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill and produce our oil and natural gas properties In a rising price environment, such as those experienced in 2007 and early 2008, well service providers and related equipment and personnel are in short supply. This causes escalating prices, the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use of equipment and inexperienced personnel. In some cases, we are operating in new areas where services and infrastructure do not exist or in urban areas which are more restrictive. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipelines status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of on going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. 12 Table of Contents While our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, our gas gathering operations may be subject to certain FERC reporting and posting requirements in a given year. FERC has recently issued a final rule (as amended by orders on rehearing, Order 704) requiring certain participants in the natural gas market, including certain gathering facilities and natural gas marketers that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases, to submit annual reports regarding those transactions to FERC. In addition, FERC has issued a final rule (Order 720) requiring major non interstate pipelines, defined as certain non interstate pipelines delivering more than an average of 50 million MMBtu of gas over the previous three calendar years, to post daily certain information regarding the pipelines capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERCs policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipelines rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. For more information regarding the regulation of our operations, please see Government Regulation in item 1 of this report. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines Under the EP Act 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated as a natural gas company by FERC under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of four otherwise non FERC jurisdiction facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. We also must comply the anti market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject Range to civil penalty liability. For more information regarding regulation of our operations, please see Government Regulation in Item 1 of this report. The oil and gas industry is subject to extensive regulation The oil and gas industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United States by local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous departments and agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on participants in the oil and gas industry. Compliance with such rules and regulations often increases our cost of doing business, delays our operations and, in turn, decreases our profitability. Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws, regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property damage or injuries to employees and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and even may be caused by previous owners of property we own or lease. Any past, present or future failure by us to completely comply with environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could cause us to incur substantial fines, sanctions or liabilities from cleanup costs or other damages. Incurrence of those costs or damages could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses. Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It generally is not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily, a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed. For example, several years ago, we consummated a large acquisition that proved extremely disappointing. Production from the acquired properties fell more rapidly than anticipated and further development results were below the results we had originally projected. The poor production performance of these properties resulted in material downward 13 Table of Contents reserve revisions. There is no assurance that our recent and or future acquisition activity will not result in similarly disappointing results. In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or regulatory approvals. Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with recent and future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel and none of them is currently subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise. Drilling is a high risk activity The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil and gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of other factors, including: high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor, or other services; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; reductions in oil and gas prices; limitations in the market for oil and gas; adverse weather conditions; facility or equipment malfunctions; equipment failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures; casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipelines ruptures, and discharges of toxic gases; lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations; loss of drilling fluid circulation; pressure or irregularities in formations; fires; natural disasters; blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; and uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. 14 Table of Contents If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete The oil and gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business depends on oil and gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by others The marketability of our oil and gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. Although, recently we have entered into some firm arrangements in certain production areas. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and gas. If any of these third party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport our product, or if the natural gas quality specifications for a natural gas pipeline or facility changes so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues could be adversely affected. The disruption of third party facilities due to maintenance and or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. We exist in a litigious environment Any constituent could bring suit regarding our existing or planned operations or allege a violation of an existing contract. Any such action could delay when planned operations can actually commence or could cause a halt to existing production until such alleged violations are resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in defending our rights, but halting existing production or delaying planned operations could impact our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities. Our financial statements are complex Due to United States generally accepted accounting rules and the nature of our business, our financial statements continue to be complex, particularly with reference to hedging, asset retirement obligations, equity awards, deferred taxes and the accounting for our deferred compensation plans. We expect such complexity to continue and possibly increase. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued In 2004 and 2005, we sold 33.8 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2006, we issued 6.5 million shares as part of the Stroud acquisition. In 2007, we sold 8.1 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2008, we sold 4.4 million shares of common stock with the proceeds used to pay down a portion of the outstanding balance of our bank credit facility. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is limited by our bank credit facility and our senior subordinated note agreements. We also issue restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to our employees and directors as part of their compensation. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock, additional subordinated notes or other securities or debt convertible into common stock, to extend maturities or fund capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders. Dividend limitations Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are imposed under our bank credit facility and under our senior subordinated note agreements. These limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends independent of our dividend policy. Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2008, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $21.74 per share to a high of $76.81 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: changes in oil and gas prices; variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; changes in market valuations of comparable companies; additions or departures of key personnel; or future sales of our stock. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future and our stock price could decline as a result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The table below summarizes certain data for our core operating areas for the year ended December 31, 2008. Average Daily Total Percentage of Production Total Percentage Proved Total (mcfe Production of Total Reserves Proved Area per day) (mcfe) Production (Mmcfe) Reserves Southwest 235,289 86,115,662 61 % 1,304,154 49 % Appalachia 139,832 51,178,557 36 % 1,312,426 50 % Gulf Coast 10,521 3,850,597 3 % 36,985 1 % 385,642 141,144,816 100 % 2,653,565 100 % 16 Table of Contents We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments; therefore, segment reporting is not applicable to us. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Southwest Area The Southwest Area conducts drilling, production and field operations in the Barnett Shale of North Central Texas, the Permian Basin of West Texas and eastern New Mexico, and the East Texas Basin, as well as in the Texas Panhandle and the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma. In the Southwest Area, we own 2,308 net producing wells, 96% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 72%. We have approximately 841,000 gross (547,000 net) acres under lease. Total proved reserves increased 255.8 Bcfe, or 24%, at December 31, 2008 when compared to year end 2007. Production and an unfavorable reserve revision for lower prices was more than offset by property purchases (95.6 Bcfe) and drilling additions (293.4 Bcfe). Annual production increased 22% over 2007. During 2008, the region spent $536.2 million to drill 242 (209.8 net) development wells, of which 237 (205.8 net) were productive, and 18 (14.0 net) exploratory wells, of which 13 (11.1 net) were productive. During the year, the region achieved a 97% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2008, the Southwest Area had a development inventory of 552 proven drilling locations and 352 proven recompletions. During the year, the Southwest Area drilled 88 proven locations and added 263 new locations. Development projects include recompletions, infill drilling and to a lesser extent, installation of secondary recovery projects. These activities also include increasing reserves and production through cost control, upgrading lifting equipment, improving gathering systems and surface facilities, and performing restimulations and refracturing operations. Appalachia Area Our properties in this area are located in the Appalachian Basin in the northeastern United States, principally in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New York, West Virginia and Virginia. The reserves principally produce from the Pennsylvanian (coalbed formation), Upper Devonian, Medina, Clinton, Queenston, Big Lime, Marcellus Shale, Niagaran Reef, Knox, Huntersville Chert, Oriskany and Trenton Black River formations at depths ranging from 2,500 to 12,500 feet. Generally, after initial flush production, most of these properties are characterized by gradual decline rates, typically producing for 10 to 35 years. We own 10,278 net producing wells, 59% of which we operate, and 5,255 miles of gas gathering lines. Our average working interest is 73%. We have approximately 2.7 million gross (2.3 million net) acres under lease, which include 407,800 acres where we also own a royalty interest. Reserves at December 31, 2008 increased 162.3 Bcfe, or 14%, from 2007 due to drilling additions (214.5 Bcfe) that were partially offset by production. Annual production increased 18% over 2007. During 2008, the region spent $359.5 million to drill 361 (257.4 net) development wells, all of which were productive, and 7.0 (5.0 net) exploratory wells, all of which were productive. As a result, the region achieved a 100% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2008, the Appalachia Area had an inventory of 3,800 proven drilling locations and 500 proven recompletions. During the year, the Appalachia Area drilled 192 proven locations and added 519 new locations. Gulf Coast Area The Gulf Coast properties are located onshore in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. Our major fields produce from the Yegua formations at depths of 12,000 to 14,000 feet in the Upper Texas Gulf Coast, the Upper Oligocene in South Louisiana at depths of 10,000 to 12,000 feet and the Sligo and Hosston formations at depths of 15,000 to 16,500 feet in the Oakvale field in Mississippi. We have approximately 116,000 gross (82,000 net) acres under lease. We own 18 net producing wells in this Area, 88% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 47%. Reserves increased 2.7 Bcfe, or 8%, from 2007 with drilling additions (10.5 Bcfe) partially offset by an unfavorable reserve revision and production. On an annual basis, production increased 61% from 2007. During 2008, the region spent $34.3 million to drill 5.0 (3.7 net) development wells, of which 4.0 (2.8 net) were productive, and 1.0 (0.3 net) exploratory well that was a dry hole. During the year, the Gulf Coast Area had a 69% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2008, the Gulf Coast Area had an inventory of 5 proven drilling locations and 10 proven recompletions. 17 Table of Contents Proved Reserves The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past five years: December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Natural gas (Mmcf) Developed 1,337,978 1,144,709 875,395 724,876 580,006 Undeveloped 875,568 688,088 560,583 400,534 366,422 Total 2,213,546 1,832,797 1,435,978 1,125,410 946,428 Oil and NGLs (Mbbls) Developed 49,009 47,015 37,750 33,029 27,715 Undeveloped 24,327 19,645 15,957 13,863 10,451 Total 73,336 66,660 53,707 46,892 38,166 Total (Mmcfe) (a) 2,653,565 2,232,762 1,758,226 1,406,762 1,175,425 % Developed 62 % 64 % 63 % 66 % 64 % (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. The following table sets forth summary information by area with respect to estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2008: Reserve Volumes PV 10 (a) Oil NGL Natural Gas Total Amount (Mbbls) (Mmcf) (Mmcfe) % (In thousands) % Southwest 54,967 974,353 1,304,154 49 % $ 1,819,212 54 % Appalachia 17,582 1,206,933 1,312,426 50 % 1,493,961 44 % Gulf Coast 787 32,260 36,985 1 % 87,073 2 % Total 73,336 2,213,546 2,653,565 100 % $ 3,400,246 100 % (a) PV 10 was prepared using prices in effect at the end of 2008, discounted at 10% per annum. Year end PV 10 may be considered a non GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC. We believe that the presentation of PV 10 is relevant and useful to our investors as supplemental disclosure to the standardized measure, or after tax amount, because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves prior to taking into account future corporate income taxes and our current tax structure. While the standardized measure is dependent on the unique tax situation of each company, PV 10 is based on prices and discount factors that are consistent for all companies. Because of this, PV 10 can be used within the industry and by creditors and securities analysts to evaluate estimated net cash flows from proved reserves on a more comparable basis. The difference between the standardized measure and the PV 10 amount is the discounted estimated future income tax of $819.0 million at December 31, 2008. At year end 2008, the following independent petroleum consultants reviewed our reserves: DeGolyer and MacNaughton (Southwest and Gulf Coast), H.J. Gruy and Associates, Inc. (Southwest), and Wright and Company, Inc. (Appalachia). These engineers were selected for their geographic expertise and their historical experience in engineering certain properties. At December 31, 2008, these consultants collectively reviewed approximately 87% of our proved reserves. All estimates of oil and gas reserves are subject to uncertainty. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. We did not file any reports during the year ended December 31, 2008 with any federal authority or agency with respect to our estimates of oil and gas reserves. 18 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the estimated future net cash flows, excluding open hedging contracts, from proved reserves, the present value of those net cash flows (PV 10), and the expected benchmark prices and average field prices used in projecting net cash flows over the past five years (in millions except prices): December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Future net cash flows $ 8,441 $ 11,908 $ 6,391 $ 10,429 $ 5,035 Present value Before income tax $ 3,400 $ 5,205 $ 2,771 $ 4,887 $ 2,396 After income tax (Standardized Measure) $ 2,581 $ 3,666 $ 2,002 $ 3,384 $ 1,749 Benchmark prices (NYMEX) Oil price (per barrel) $ 44.60 $ 95.98 $ 61.05 $ 61.04 $ 43.33 Gas price (per mcf) $ 5.71 $ 6.80 $ 5.64 $ 10.08 $ 6.18 Wellhead prices Oil price (per barrel) $ 42.76 $ 91.88 $ 57.66 $ 57.80 $ 40.44 Gas price (per mcf) $ 5.23 $ 6.44 $ 5.24 $ 9.83 $ 6.05 Future net cash flows represent projected revenues from the sale of proved reserves net of production and development costs (including operating expenses and production taxes). Such calculations, prepared in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities, are based on costs and prices in effect at December 31 of each year, without escalation. There can be no assurance that the proved reserves will be produced within the periods indicated or that prices and costs will remain constant. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating reserves and related information and different reservoir engineers often arrive at different estimates for the same properties. Producing Wells The following table sets forth information relating to productive wells at December 31, 2008. We also own royalty interests in an additional 1,900 wells in which we do not own a working interest. If we own both a royalty and a working interest in a well such interests are included in the table below. Wells are classified as crude oil or gas according to their predominant production stream. We do not have a significant number of dual completions. Average Total Wells Working Gross Net Interest Natural gas 14,902 10,471 70 % Crude oil 2,474 2,133 86 % Total 17,376 12,604 73 % The day to day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of the operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs or contracts for field personnel and performs other functions. An operator receives reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged by unaffiliated third parties. The charges customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated. Acreage We own interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage. These ownership interests generally take the form of working interests in oil and gas leases that have varying terms. Developed acreage includes leased acreage that is allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production even though shallower or deeper horizons may not have been fully explored. Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas or oil, regardless of whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves. 19 Table of Contents The following table sets forth certain information regarding the developed and undeveloped acreage in which we own a working interest as of December 31, 2008. Acreage related to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests is excluded from this summary: Developed Acres Undeveloped Acres Total Acres Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Alabama 72,914 61,679 72,914 61,679 Louisiana 2,567 1,650 12,781 8,080 15,348 9,730 Michigan 162 162 123 123 285 285 Mississippi 5,064 2,706 18,973 6,940 24,037 9,646 New Mexico 8,090 5,878 8,090 5,878 New York 186,867 177,890 128,820 113,716 315,687 291,606 Ohio 272,671 255,283 244,535 223,332 517,206 478,615 Oklahoma 165,700 102,097 151,242 82,306 316,942 184,403 Pennsylvania 496,804 443,785 831,010 725,946 1,327,814 1,169,731 Texas 254,020 175,363 265,019 182,556 519,039 357,919 Virginia 129,500 56,240 156,102 71,963 285,602 128,203 West Virginia 81,700 50,178 130,908 125,218 212,608 175,396 1,603,145 1,271,232 2,012,427 1,601,859 3,615,572 2,873,091 Average working interest 79 % 80 % 79 % Undeveloped Acreage Expirations The table below summarizes by year our undeveloped acreage scheduled to expire in the next five years. Acres % of Total As of December 31, Gross Net Undeveloped 2009 351,165 257,926 15% 2010 249,046 196,864 12% 2011 352,510 290,392 17% 2012 222,361 201,357 12% 2013 136,219 124,997 7% We have lease acreage that is generally subject to lease expiration if initial wells are not drilled within a specified period, generally not exceeding two years. We do not expect to lose significant lease acreage because of failure to drill due to inadequate capital, equipment or personnel. However, based on our evaluation of prospective economics, we have allowed acreage to expire and will allow additional acreage to expire in the future. Drilling Results The following table summarizes drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. As of December 31, 2008, we were in the process of drilling 44 gross (29.0 net) wells. 2008 2007 2006 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Development wells Productive 602.0 466.0 942.0 680.5 992.0 689.7 Dry 6.0 4.9 9.0 7.9 8.0 4.6 Exploratory wells Productive 20.0 16.1 11.0 6.3 12.0 6.9 Dry 6.0 3.2 5.0 3.5 5.0 2.6 Total wells Productive 622.0 482.1 953.0 686.8 1,004.0 696.6 Dry 12.0 8.1 14.0 11.4 13.0 7.2 Total 634.0 490.2 967.0 698.2 1,017.0 703.8 Success ratio 98 % 98 % 99 % 98 % 99 % 99 % 20 Table of Contents Title to Properties We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often minimal investigation of record title is made at the time of lease acquisition. Investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include: customary royalty interests; liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes; obligations or duties under applicable laws; development obligations under oil and gas leases; or net profit interests. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We have been named as a defendant in a number of legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, such litigation and claims are likely to be resolved without a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity, although an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on the operations of a given interim period or year. See also Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS There were no matters submitted to a vote of our security holders during fourth quarter 2008. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol RRC. During 2008, trading volume averaged 3.3 million shares per day. In 2007, we were selected to be included in the SP 500 Index. The following table shows the quarterly high and low sale prices and cash dividends declared as reported on the NYSE composite tape for the past two years. Cash Dividends High Low Declared 2007 First quarter $ 33.80 $ 25.59 $ 0.03 Second quarter 40.50 33.40 0.03 Third quarter 41.87 33.28 0.03 Fourth quarter 51.88 37.17 0.04 2008 First quarter $ 65.53 $ 43.02 $ 0.04 Second quarter 76.81 61.13 0.04 Third quarter 72.98 37.34 0.04 Fourth quarter 44.15 23.77 0.04 Between January 1, 2009 and February 19, 2009, the common stock traded at prices between $31.19 and $41.80 per share. Our senior subordinated notes are not listed on an exchange, but trade over the counter. 21 Table of Contents Holders of Record On February 19, 2009, there were approximately 1,652 holders of record of our common stock. Dividends The payment of dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and depends on earnings, capital expenditures and various other factors. The bank credit facility and our senior subordinated notes allow for the payment of common and preferred dividends, with certain limitations. The determination of the amount of future dividends, if any, to be declared and paid is at the sole discretion of our board and will depend upon our level of earnings and capital expenditures and other matters that the Board of Directors deems relevant. For more information, see information set forth in Item 7 of this report Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We have a repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in 2008 for the repurchase of up to $10.0 million of common stock based on market conditions and opportunities. There were no repurchases during fourth quarter 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we have $6.8 million remaining under this authorization. Stockholder Return Performance Presentation* The following graph is included in accordance with the SECs executive compensation disclosure rules. This historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock performance. The graph compares the change in the cumulative total return of Ranges common stock, the Dow Jones U.S. Exploration and Production Index, and the SP 500 Index for the five years ended December 31, 2008. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in the Companys common stock and each index on December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Range Resources Corporation $ 100 $ 217 $ 418 $ 436 $ 815 $ 546 DJ U.S. Expl. Prod. Index 100 140 230 241 344 204 SP 500 Index 100 109 112 128 132 81 * The performance graph and the information contained in this section is not soliciting material, is being furnished not filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table shows selected financial information for the five years ended December 31, 2008. Significant producing property acquisitions in 2006 and 2004 affect the comparability of year to year financial and operating data. In March 2007, we sold our Gulf of Mexico properties for proceeds of $155.0 million. Accordingly, the financial and statistical data contained in the following discussion reflects our Gulf of Mexico operations as discontinued operations. All weighted average shares and per share data have been adjusted for the three for two stock split effected December 2, 2005. This information should be read in conjunction with Item 7 of this report Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except per share data) Balance Sheet Data: Current assets (a) $ 404,311 $ 261,814 $ 388,925 $ 207,977 $ 136,336 Current liabilities (b) 353,514 305,433 251,685 321,760 177,162 Oil and gas properties, net 4,852,710 3,503,808 2,608,088 1,679,593 1,340,077 Total assets 5,562,543 4,016,508 3,187,674 2,018,985 1,595,406 Bank debt 693,000 303,500 452,000 269,200 423,900 Subordinated notes 1,097,562 847,158 596,782 346,948 196,656 Stockholders equity (c) 2,457,833 1,728,022 1,256,161 696,923 566,340 Weighted average dilutive shares outstanding 155,943 149,911 138,711 129,125 97,998 Cash dividends declared per common share 0.16 0.13 0.09 .0599 .0267 Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided from operating activities $ 824,767 $ 642,291 $ 479,875 $ 325,745 $ 209,249 Net cash used in investing activities 1,731,777 1,020,572 911,659 432,377 624,301 Net cash provided from financing activities 903,745 379,917 429,416 93,000 432,803 (a) 2007 included deferred tax assets of $26.9 million compared to $61.7 million in 2005 and $26.3 million in 2004. 2008 includes $221.4 million unrealized derivative assets compared to $53.0 million in 2007 and $93.6 million in 2006. (b) 2008 includes unrealized derivative liabilities of $10,000 compared to $30.5 million in 2007, $4.6 million in 2006, $160.1 million in 2005 and $61.0 million in 2004. 2008 includes $33.0 million of deferred tax liabilities. (c) Stockholders equity includes other comprehensive income (loss) of $77.5 million in 2008 compared to ($26.8 million) in 2007, $36.5 million in 2006, ($147.1 million) in 2005 and ($43.3 million) in 2004. 23 Table of Contents Statement of Operations Data: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except per share data) Revenues Oil and gas sales $ 1,226,560 $ 862,537 $ 599,139 $ 495,470 $ 278,903 Transportation and gathering 4,577 2,290 2,422 2,306 2,002 Loss on retirement of securities (39 ) Derivative fair value income (loss) 70,135 (7,767 ) 142,395 10,303 614 Other 21,675 5,031 856 1,024 1,588 Total revenue 1,322,947 862,091 744,812 509,103 283,068 Costs and expenses Direct operating 142,387 107,499 81,261 57,866 39,419 Production and ad valorem taxes 55,172 42,443 36,415 30,822 19,845 Exploration 67,690 43,345 44,088 29,529 12,619 Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties 47,906 6,750 257 623 1,161 General and administrative 92,308 69,670 49,886 33,444 20,634 Deferred compensation plan (24,689 ) 28,332 6,873 29,474 19,176 Interest expense and dividends on trust preferred 99,748 77,737 55,849 37,619 22,437 Depletion, depreciation and amortization 299,831 220,578 154,482 113,741 79,467 Total costs and expenses 780,353 596,354 429,111 333,118 214,758 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 542,594 265,737 315,701 175,985 68,310 Income tax provision (benefit) Current 4,268 320 1,912 1,071 (245 ) Deferred 192,168 98,441 119,840 64,809 25,327 196,436 98,761 121,752 65,880 25,082 Income from continuing operations 346,158 166,976 193,949 110,105 43,228 Discontinued operations, net of taxes 63,593 (35,247 ) 906 (997 ) Net income 346,158 230,569 158,702 111,011 42,231 Preferred dividends (5,163 ) Net income available to common stockholders $ 346,158 $ 230,569 $ 158,702 $ 111,011 $ 37,068 Earnings per common share: Basic income from continuing operations $ 2.29 $ 1.16 $ 1.45 $ 0.89 $ 0.41 discontinued operations 0.44 (0.26 ) (0.01 ) net income $ 2.29 $ 1.60 $ 1.19 $ 0.89 $ 0.40 Diluted income from continuing operations $ 2.22 $ 1.11 $ 1.39 $ 0.85 $ 0.39 discontinued operations 0.43 (0.25 ) 0.01 (0.01 ) net income $ 2.22 $ 1.54 $ 1.14 $ 0.86 $ 0.38 24 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our business and results of operations together with our present financial condition. This section should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Statements in our discussion may be forward looking. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that a number of factors could cause future production, revenues and expenses to differ materially from our expectations. See Disclosures Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Annual Report and Risk Factors in Item 1A for additional discussion of some of these factors and risks. Overview of Our Business We are an independent oil and gas company engaged in the exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, primarily in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. We operate in one segment. We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Our strategy is to increase reserves and production through internally generated drilling projects coupled with complementary acquisitions. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and gas and on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas activities. Our corporate headquarters are in Fort Worth, Texas. Industry Environment We operate entirely within the United States, a mature region for the exploration and production of oil and gas. Although new discoveries of oil and gas occur in the United States, because it is a mature region, the size and frequency of these discoveries is generally declining, while finding and development costs are increasing. We believe that there remain areas of the United States, such as the Appalachian Basin and certain areas in our Southwest and Gulf Coast Areas that are underexplored or have not been fully explored and developed with the benefit of newly available exploration and production reservoir enhancement technology. Examples of such technology include advanced 3 D seismic processing, hydraulic reservoir fracture stimulation, advances in well logging and analysis, horizontal drilling and completion techniques, secondary and tertiary recovery practices, and automated remote well monitoring and control devices. Oil and gas are commodities. The price that we receive for the natural gas we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand for natural gas in the United States increased dramatically during this decade; however, the current economic slowdown has reduced this demand over the second half of 2008 and is continuing into 2009. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile and we expect the volatility to continue in the future. Factors impacting the future supply balance are the growth in domestic gas production and the increase in the United States LNG import capacity. Significant LNG capacity increases have been announced which may allow for more LNG imports resulting in increased price volatility. A substantial or extended decline in oil and gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and gas reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets. Realized oil and gas average prices increased from 2007 to 2008. As a result of narrowing excess worldwide capacity, weakness in the dollar, and continuing tension in the Middle East, oil reached a record price of $147.00 per Bbl in July 2008. However, rising crude oil supplies, the tightened credit markets and lower demand in the slowing U.S and global economies have caused recent oil prices to decline. Oil prices are expected to remain volatile. Although our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) received for oil and gas was $8.58 per mcfe in the year ended December 31, 2008, prices were bolstered by record oil prices in the first half of the year. In fourth quarter 2008, our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) declined to $6.86 per mcfe. In a trend that began in the fourth quarter of 2008 and has continued into 2009, the industry has experienced deteriorating basis differentials in the Midcontinent and West Texas areas primarily caused by an over supply of gas in these regions. 25 Table of Contents Capital Budget for 2009 Our capital budget for 2009 is currently set at $700.0 million, excluding acquisitions. The 2009 capital budget is less than the 2008 capital spending levels due to lower expected operating cash flows resulting from declining oil and gas prices. For 2009, we expect our cash flow to fund our capital budget. As has been our historical practice, we will periodically review our capital expenditures throughout the year and adjust the budget based on commodity prices and drilling success. Source of Our Revenues We derive our revenues from the sale of oil and gas that is produced from our properties. Revenues are a function of the volume produced, the prevailing market price at the time of sale, quality, Btu content and transportation costs to market. Production volumes and the price of oil and gas are the primary factors affecting our revenues. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to downward price fluctuations, we use derivative instruments to hedge future sales prices on a significant portion of our gas and oil production. During 2008 and 2006, the use of derivative instruments prevented us from realizing the full benefit of upward price movements and may do so in future periods. Our average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements) include both the effects of the settlement of derivative contracts that are accounted for as hedges and the settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges. Principal Components of Our Cost Structure Direct Operating Expenses. These are day to day costs incurred to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market together with the daily costs incurred to maintain our producing properties. Such costs also include maintenance, repairs and workovers expenses related to our oil and gas properties. These costs are expected to moderate in 2009 as we expect industry demand for these services to decline. Direct operating expenses also include stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with equity grants of stock appreciation rights (SARs) and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. Production taxes are paid on produced oil and gas based on a percentage of market prices (not hedged prices) or at fixed rates established by federal, state or local taxing authorities. Ad valorem taxes are taxes generally based on reserve values at the end of each year. Exploration Expense. These are geological and geophysical costs, including payroll and benefits for the geological and geophysical staff, seismic costs, delay rentals and the costs of unsuccessful exploratory dry holes. Exploration expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with equity grants of SARs and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. General and Administrative Expense. These costs include overhead, including payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, costs of managing our production and development operations, franchise taxes, audit and other professional fees and legal compliance are included in general and administrative expense. General and administrative expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with equity grants of SARs and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties. This category includes unproved property impairment and costs associated with lease expirations. Interest. We typically finance a portion of our working capital requirements and acquisitions with borrowings under our bank credit facility and with our longer term debt securities. As a result, we incur substantial interest expense that is affected by both fluctuations in interest rates and our financing decisions. We will likely continue to incur significant interest expense as we continue to grow. We expect our 2009 capital budget to be funded primarily with internal cash flow. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. This includes the systematic expensing of the capitalized costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop gas and oil. As a successful efforts company, we capitalize all costs associated with our acquisition and development efforts and all successful exploration efforts, and apportion these costs to each unit of production through depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. This expense also includes the systematic, monthly accretion of the future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. Income Taxes. We are subject to state and federal income taxes but are currently not in a tax paying position for regular federal income taxes, primarily due to the current deductibility of intangible drilling costs (IDC). We do pay some state income taxes where our IDC deductions do not exceed our taxable income or where state income taxes are determined on another basis. Currently, substantially all of our federal taxes are deferred; however, at some point, we anticipate using all of our net operating loss carryforwards and we will recognize current income tax expense and continue to recognize current tax expense as long as we are generating taxable income. 26 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income and Operations Overview of 2008 Results During 2008, we achieved the following results: Achieved 21% production growth and 19% reserve growth; Drilled 490 net wells with a 98% success rate; Continued expansion of emerging plays; Posted record financial results and maintained a strong balance sheet; Completed acquisitions of properties containing 95.6 Bcfe of proved reserves; and Completed $68.2 million of asset sales. Our 2008 performance reflects another year of successfully executing our strategy of growth through drilling supplemented by complementary acquisitions. The business of exploring for, developing, and acquiring oil and gas is highly competitive and capital intensive. As in any commodity business, the costs associated with finding, acquiring, extracting, and financing our operations are critical to profitability and long term value creation for stockholders. Generating meaningful growth while containing costs presents an ongoing challenge. During the recent period of historically high oil and gas prices, drilling service and operating costs generally increased due to increased competition for goods and services. Prices for oil and gas dramatically declined in the last half of 2008 and we are presently experiencing reductions in service costs which vary by region. We faced other challenges in 2008 including attracting and retaining qualified personnel, consummating and integrating acquisitions, accessing the capital markets to fund our growth on sufficiently favorable terms and introducing new oil and gas extraction technologies into new regions and projects such as the Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale. We have continued to expand and improve the technical staff through the hiring of additional experienced professionals. Our inventory of exploration and development prospects continues to be strong, providing new growth opportunities, greater diversification of technical risk and better efficiency. Total revenues increased 53% in 2008 over the same period of 2007. This increase is due to higher production and higher realized oil and gas prices. Our 2008 production growth is due to the continued success of our drilling program and to acquisitions completed in 2006 and 2007. Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements) were 7% higher in 2008, although realized prices declined sharply in the last half of 2008. As discussed in Item 1A of this report, significant changes in oil and gas prices can have a material impact on our balance sheet and our results of operations, including the fair value of our derivatives. All of our expenses have increased on both an absolute and per mcfe basis when compared to 2007, due to higher overall industry costs, higher compensation expense resulting from additional employees, increased salaries and higher levels of activity. While overall costs were higher, the rate of inflation experienced in our industry has moderated for some goods and services as commodity prices weakened. The availability of goods and services continues to be mixed, based on region and service company expertise. We continue to experience competition for technical and experienced personnel and overall compensation inflation in our industry has moderated. It is difficult for us to forecast price trends, supply, service or personnel availability, any of which, if changed in an adverse manner, would significantly impact both operating costs and capital expenditures. As we continue to have Marcellus wells shut in waiting on pipeline and processing facilities and we continue to expand our Marcellus operating team to meet the needs of this developing asset, we expect to see continued upward pressure on our cost structure. The initial phase of the pipeline and processing infrastructure was completed in fourth quarter 2008 with additional expansions set for 2009 and later. 27 Table of Contents Oil and Gas Sales, Production and Realized Price Calculations Our oil and gas sales vary from year to year as a result of changes in realized commodity prices and production volumes. Hedges included in oil and gas sales reflect settlements on those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting. Cash settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges are included in the income statement caption called Derivative fair value income (loss). Oil and gas sales increased 42% from 2007 due to a 21% increase in production and a 17% increase in realized prices. Oil and gas sales in 2007 increased 44% from 2006 due to a 22% increase in production and an 18% increase in realized prices. The following table illustrates the primary components of oil and gas sales for each of the last three years (in thousands): 2008 2007 2006 Oil and Gas Sales Oil wellhead $ 298,482 $ 226,686 $ 189,516 Oil hedges realized (72,135 ) (23,755 ) (45,265 ) Total oil revenue $ 226,347 $ 202,931 $ 144,251 Gas wellhead $ 923,160 $ 585,538 $ 466,099 Gas hedges realized 8,561 27,916 (47,916 ) Total gas revenue $ 931,721 $ 613,454 $ 418,183 Total NGL revenue $ 68,492 $ 46,152 $ 36,705 Combined wellhead $ 1,290,134 $ 858,376 $ 692,320 Combined hedges (63,574 ) 4,161 (93,181 ) Total oil and gas sales $ 1,226,560 $ 862,537 $ 599,139 Our production continues to grow through drilling success as we place new wells into production and through additions from acquisitions, partially offset by the natural decline of our oil and gas wells and asset sales. For 2008, our production volumes increased 18% in our Appalachia Area, increased 22% in our Southwest Area and increased 61% in our Gulf Coast Area. For 2007, our production volumes increased 15% in our Appalachia Area, increased 28% in our Southwest Area and declined 17% in our Gulf Coast Area. For 2006, our production volumes increased 10% in our Appalachia Area, increased 29% in our Southwest Area and declined 36% in our Gulf Coast Area. Our production for each of the last three years is set forth in the following table: 2008 2007 2006 Production Crude oil (bbls) 3,084,529 3,359,668 3,039,150 NGLs (bbls) 1,385,701 1,114,730 1,091,785 Natural gas (mcf) 114,323,436 89,594,626 70,712,770 Total (mcfe) (a) 141,144,816 116,441,014 95,498,380 Average daily production Crude oil (bbls) 8,428 9,205 8,326 NGLs (bbls) 3,786 3,054 2,991 Natural gas (mcf) 312,359 245,465 193,734 Total (mcfe) (a) 385,642 319,016 261,639 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. 28 Table of Contents Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) received for oil and gas during 2008 was $8.58 per mcfe compared to $8.02 per mcfe in 2007 and $6.80 per mcfe in 2006. Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) calculation includes all cash settlements for derivatives, whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Average price calculations for each of the last three years is shown below: 2008 2007 2006 Average Prices Average sales prices (wellhead): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 96.77 $ 67.47 $ 62.36 NGLs (per bbl) $ 49.43 $ 41.40 $ 33.62 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.07 $ 6.54 $ 6.59 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 9.14 $ 7.37 $ 7.25 Average realized prices (including derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 73.38 $ 60.40 $ 47.46 NGLs (per bbl) $ 49.43 $ 41.40 $ 33.62 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.15 $ 6.85 $ 5.91 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 8.69 $ 7.41 $ 6.27 Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 68.20 $ 60.16 $ 47.46 NGLs (per bbl) $ 49.43 $ 41.40 $ 33.62 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.15 $ 7.66 $ 6.62 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 8.58 $ 8.02 $ 6.80 Average NYMEX prices (b): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 100.47 $ 72.34 $ 66.22 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.91 $ 6.92 $ 7.26 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. (b) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. 29 Table of Contents Derivative fair value income (loss) increased to a gain of $70.1 million in 2008 compared to a loss of $7.8 million in 2007 and a gain of $142.4 million in 2006. Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are, to a degree, an economic offset to our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method whereby all realized and unrealized gains and losses related to these contracts are included in Derivative fair value income (loss) in the revenue section of our statement of operations. Mark to market accounting treatment creates volatility in our revenues as gains and losses from derivatives are included in total revenues and are not included in our balance sheet in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As commodity prices increase or decrease, such changes will have an opposite effect on the mark to market value of our derivatives. Because oil and gas prices declined dramatically in the last half of 2008, our derivatives became comparatively more valuable. However, we expect these gains will be offset by lower wellhead revenues in the future. We have also entered into basis swap agreements to limit volatility caused by changing differentials between index and regional prices received. Basis swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting purposes and are marked to market. Hedge ineffectiveness, also included in Derivative fair value income (loss), is associated with our hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The following table presents information about the components of derivative fair value income (loss) for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands): 2008 2007 2006 Change in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting (a) $ 83,867 $ (78,769 ) $ 86,491 Realized (loss) gain on settlements gas (b) (c) (1,383 ) 71,098 49,939 Realized loss on settlements oil (b) (c) (15,431 ) (244 ) Hedge ineffectiveness realized (c) 1,386 968 unrealized (a) 1,696 (820 ) 5,965 Derivative fair value income (loss) $ 70,135 $ (7,767 ) $ 142,395 (a) These amounts are unrealized and are not included in average sales price calculations. (b) These amounts represent realized gains and losses on settled derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. (c) These settlements are included in average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements). Other revenue increased in 2008 to $21.7 million compared to $5.0 million in 2007 and $856,000 in 2006. The 2008 period includes a $20.2 million gain on the sale of assets and a loss from equity method investments of $218,000. The 2007 period includes income from equity method investments of $974,000 and other miscellaneous income. The 2006 period includes income from equity method investments of $548,000. Our costs have increased as we continue to grow. We believe some of our expense fluctuations are best analyzed on a unit of production, or per mcfe, basis. The following presents information about certain of our expenses on a per mcfe basis for 2008, 2007 and 2006. Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change Direct operating expense $ 1.01 $ 0.92 $ 0.09 10 % $ 0.92 $ 0.85 $ 0.07 8 % Production and ad valorem tax expense 0.39 0.36 0.03 8 % 0.36 0.38 (0.02 ) 5 % General and administrative expense 0.65 0.60 0.05 8 % 0.60 0.52 0.08 15 % Interest expense 0.71 0.67 0.04 6 % 0.67 0.58 0.09 15 % Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense 2.12 1.89 0.23 12 % 1.89 1.62 0.27 17 % 30 Table of Contents Direct operating expense was $142.4 million in 2008 compared to $107.5 million in 2007 and $81.3 million in 2006 due to higher oilfield service costs and higher volumes. Our operating expenses are increasing as we add new wells from development and acquisitions and maintain production from our existing properties. We incurred $9.9 million of workover costs in 2008 compared to $7.1 million in 2007 and $3.5 million in 2006. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses for 2008 increased $0.09 or 10% from the same period of 2007 with the increase consisting primarily of higher workover costs ($0.01 per mcfe), higher personnel and related costs ($0.02 per mcfe) along with higher equipment leasing costs ($0.02 per mcfe) and higher overall industry costs. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses for 2007 increased $0.07 or 8% from the same period of 2006 with the increase consisting primarily of higher workover costs ($0.02 per mcfe), higher water disposal costs ($0.02 per mcfe), higher well services and equipment costs ($0.04 per mcfe) and a $0.01 per mcfe increase in stock based compensation. Stock based compensation expense represents the amortization of our grants of restricted stock and SARs as part of employee compensation. The following table summarizes direct operating expenses per mcfe for 2008, 2007 and 2006: Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change Lease operating expense $ 0.92 $ 0.84 $ 0.08 10 % $ 0.84 $ 0.80 $ 0.04 5 % Workovers 0.07 0.06 0.01 17 % 0.06 0.04 0.02 50 % Stock based compensation (non cash) 0.02 0.02 % 0.02 0.01 0.01 100 % Total direct operating expenses $ 1.01 $ 0.92 $ 0.09 10 % $ 0.92 $ 0.85 $ 0.07 8 % Production and ad valorem taxes are paid based on market prices and not hedged prices. These costs were $55.2 million in 2008 compared to $42.4 million in 2007 and $36.4 million in 2006. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes increased to $0.39 in 2008 from $0.36 in the same period of 2007, primarily due to a 24% increase in pre hedge prices. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes decreased to $0.36 in 2007 from $0.38 in 2006 with lower ad valorem taxes per mcfe due to lower property tax rates in Texas as a result of the new margin tax. General and administrative expense was $92.3 million for 2008 compared to $69.7 million in 2007 and $49.9 million in 2006. The 2008 increase of $22.6 million when compared to the prior year is due primarily to higher salaries and benefits ($12.0 million) due to an increase in the number of employees (14%) and salary increases, higher stock based compensation ($5.6 million), higher legal and professional fees ($921,000), an allowance for bad debt expense of $450,000 and higher office expenses, including rent and information technology. Our personnel costs continue to increase as we invest in our technical teams and other staffing to support our expansion into new regions particularly the Marcellus shall play in Appalachia. General and administrative expenses for 2007 increased $19.8 million from the same period of 2006 due primarily to higher salaries and benefits ($10.4 million), higher stock based compensation ($4.0 million) and higher rent and office expense ($2.3 million). Stock based compensation expense represents the amortization of our grants of restricted stock and SARs to our employees and directors as part of compensation. The following table summarizes general and administrative expenses per mcfe for 2008, 2007 and 2006: Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change General and administrative $ 0.48 $ 0.44 $ 0.04 9 % $ 0.44 $ 0.37 $ 0.07 19 % Stock based compensation (non cash) 0.17 0.16 0.01 6 % 0.16 0.15 0.01 7 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 0.65 $ 0.60 $ 0.05 8 % $ 0.60 $ 0.52 $ 0.08 15 % Interest expense was $99.7 million for 2008 compared to $77.7 million in 2007 and $55.8 million in 2006. Interest expense for 2008 increased $22.0 million from the same period of 2007 due to the refinancing of certain debt from floating rates to higher fixed rates along with higher overall debt balances. In September 2007, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017, which added $13.9 million of additional interest costs in 2008. In May 2008, we issued $250.0 million of 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2018, which added $11.8 million of interest costs in 2008. The proceeds from both issuances were used to retire bank debt which carried a lower interest rate. The note issuances were undertaken to better match the maturities of our debt with the life of our properties and to give us greater liquidity for the near term. Average debt outstanding on the bank credit facility for 2008 was $494.2 million compared to $417.6 million for 2007 and the weighted average interest rate was 4.4% in 2008 compared to 6.4% in 2007. Interest expense for 2007 increased $21.9 million from the same period of 2006 due to higher average debt balances and the refinancing of certain debt from short term floating to longer term fixed rates. The issuance of the 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 in September 2007 added $4.8 million of interest costs in 2007. The issuance of the 7.5% senior subordinated notes in May 2006 added $9.1 million of interest expense in 2007. Average debt outstanding on the credit facility for 2007 was $417.6 million compared to $347.8 million in 2006. The weighted average interest rate was 6.4% in 2007 compared to 6.4% in the same period of 2006. 31 Table of Contents Depletion, depreciation and amortization (DDA) was $299.8 million in 2008 compared to $220.6 million in 2007 and $154.5 million in 2006. The increase in 2008 compared to the same period of 2007 is due to a 21% increase in production and a 14% increase in depletion rates. On a per mcfe basis, DDA increased to $2.12 in 2008 compared to $1.89 in 2007 and $1.62 in 2006. DDA expense increased $66.1 million or 43% in 2007 compared to the same period of 2006 due to a 22% increase in production and a 16% increase in depletion rates. The increase in DDA per mcfe is related to increasing drilling costs, higher acquisition costs and the mix of our production. The following table summarizes DDA expense per mcfe for 2008, 2007 and 2006: Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change Depletion and amortization $ 1.99 $ 1.74 $ 0.25 14 % $ 1.74 $ 1.50 $ 0.24 16 % Depreciation 0.09 0.09 % 0.09 0.08 0.01 13 % Accretion and other 0.04 0.06 (0.02 ) 33 % 0.06 0.04 0.02 50 % Total DDA expense $ 2.12 $ 1.89 $ 0.23 12 % $ 1.89 $ 1.62 $ 0.27 17 % Other Operating Expenses Our total operating expenses also include other expenses that generally do not trend with production. These expenses include stock based compensation, exploration expense, abandonment and impairment of unproved properties and deferred compensation plan expenses. In 2008, stock based compensation is a component of direct operating expense ($2.8 million), exploration expense ($4.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($23.8 million) for a total of $31.2 million. In 2007, stock based compensation was a component of direct operating expense ($1.8 million), exploration expense ($3.5 million) and general and administrative expense ($18.2 million) for a total of $24.0 million. In 2006, stock based compensation was a component of direct operating expense ($1.4 million), exploration expense ($3.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($14.3 million) for a total of $19.1 million. Stock based compensation includes the amortization of restricted stock grants and SARs grants. These costs are increasing due to increasing grant date fair values and an increase in the number of grants on our increasing employee base. Exploration expense was $67.7 million in 2008 compared to $43.3 million in 2007 and $44.1 million in 2006. The following table details our exploration related expenses for 2008, 2007 and 2006 (in thousands): Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change %Change Dry hole expense $ 13,371 $ 15,149 $ (1,778 ) 12 % $ 15,149 $ 15,084 $ 65 % Seismic 30,645 10,933 19,712 180 % 10,933 15,277 (4,344 ) 28 % Personnel expense 11,804 8,924 2,880 32 % 8,924 6,917 2,007 29 % Stock based compensation expense 4,130 3,473 657 19 % 3,473 3,079 394 13 % Delay rentals and other 7,740 4,866 2,874 59 % 4,866 3,731 1,135 30 % Total exploration expense $ 67,690 $ 43,345 $ 24,345 56 % $ 43,345 $ 44,088 $ (743 ) 2 % Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties was $47.9 million in 2008 compared to $6.8 million in 2007 and $257,000 in 2006. This increase is primarily due to the significant increase in lease acquisition costs over the past three years and increased leasing activity in exploratory areas that require several years to delineate. As we continue to review our acreage positions and high grade our drilling inventory based on the current price environment, more leasehold impairments and abandonments will be recorded. Deferred compensation plan expense was a gain of $24.7 million in 2008 compared to a loss of $28.3 million in 2007 and a loss of $6.9 million in 2006. This non cash expense relates to the increase or decrease in value of the vested Range common stock held in our deferred compensation plan. The deferred compensation liability is adjusted to fair value by a charge or a credit to deferred compensation plan expense. The year ended 2008 decreased $53.0 million from the same period of 2007 due to a decline in our stock price, which decreased from $51.36 at December 31, 2007 to $34.39 at December 31, 2008. During the same period of the prior year, our stock price increased from $27.46 at December 31, 2006 to $51.36 at December 31, 2007. From December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006 our stock price increased from $26.34 to $27.46. Income tax expense was $196.4 million in 2008 compared to $98.8 million in 2007 and $121.8 million in 2006. The 2008 increase reflects a 104% increase in income from continuing operations before taxes compared to the same period of 2007. 2008 provided for tax expenses at an effective rate of 36.2% compared to an effective rate of 37.2% in the same period of 2007. For 2008, current income taxes of $4.3 million include state income taxes of $3.3 million and $1.0 million of federal income taxes. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was different than the statutory rate of 35% due to state income 32 Table of Contents taxes and $2.0 million of additional tax benefit related to discrete items. Income tax expense for 2007 decreased to $98.8 million, reflecting a 16% decrease in income from continuing operations before taxes compared to the same period of 2006. The year ended December 31, 2007 provided for tax expense at an effective rate of 37.2% compared to an effective rate of 38.6% in the same period of 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2007, current income taxes includes state income taxes of $449,000 and a benefit of $129,000 of federal income taxes. We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 37% for 2009. Discontinued operations in 2007 include the operating results related to our Gulf of Mexico properties and Austin Chalk properties sold in first quarter 2007. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Our main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, a bank credit facility with both uncommitted and committed availability, asset sales and access to the debt and equity capital markets. The debt and equity capital markets have recently exhibited adverse conditions. Continued volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing debt due to increased spreads over relevant interest rate benchmarks and affect our ability to access those markets. At this point, we do not believe our liquidity has been materially affected by the recent events in the global financial markets and we do not expect our liquidity to be materially impacted in the near future. We will continue to monitor our liquidity and the credit markets. Additionally, we will continue to monitor events and circumstances surrounding each of the twenty six lenders in our bank credit facility. To date we have experienced no disruptions in our ability to access the bank credit facility. However, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact to us of any further disruption in the credit environment. For additional information, see Risk Factors Difficult Conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in Item 1A of this report. In December 2008, we elected to utilize the expansion option under our bank credit facility and increased our credit facility commitment by $250.0 million, which makes the current bank commitment $1.25 billion. At December 31, 2008, our borrowing base was $1.5 billion. The borrowing base represents the amount approved by the bank group than can be borrowed based on our assets while the bank commitment (or facility amount) is the amount the banks have committed to fund pursuant to the credit agreement. We currently believe our maximum credit facility borrowing capacity exceeds our current borrowing base and, based on current circumstances, is sufficient to absorb a decline in commodity prices or any changes in bank lending practices. During 2008, our net cash provided from continuing operations of $824.8 million, proceeds from our April 2008 common stock offering of $282.2 million, proceeds from our May 2008 note offering of $250.0 million, proceeds from the sale of assets of $68.2 million and bank borrowings were used to fund $1.8 billion of capital expenditures (including acquisitions and equity investments). At December 31, 2008, we had $753,000 in cash and total assets of $5.6 billion. Our debt to capitalization ratio was 42% at December 31, 2008 compared to 40% at December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, our total capitalization was as follows (in thousands): 2008 2007 Bank debt $ 693,000 $ 303,500 Senior subordinated notes and other 1,097,668 847,158 Total debt 1,790,668 1,150,658 Stockholders equity 2,457,833 1,728,022 Total capitalization $ 4,248,501 $ 2,878,680 Debt to capitalization ratio 42 % 40 % Long term debt at December 31, 2008 totaled $1.8 billion, including $693.0 million of bank credit facility debt and $1.1 billion of senior subordinated notes. Our available committed borrowing capacity at December 31, 2008 was $557.0 million. Cash is required to fund capital expenditures necessary to offset inherent declines in production and reserves that are typical in the oil and gas industry. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on capital resources available and the success of finding or acquiring additional reserves. We currently believe that net cash generated from operating activities and unused committed borrowing capacity under the bank credit facility combined with our oil and gas price hedges currently in place will be adequate to satisfy near term financial obligations and liquidity needs. However, long term cash flows are subject to a number of variables including the level of production and prices as well as various economic conditions that have historically affected the oil and gas business. A material drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production and reserves would reduce our ability to fund capital expenditures, reduce debt, meet financial obligations and remain profitable. We operate in an environment with numerous financial and operating risks, including, but not limited to, the inherent risks of the search for, development and production of oil and gas, the ability to buy properties and sell production at prices which provide an attractive return and the highly competitive nature of the industry. Our ability to expand our reserve base is, in part, dependent on obtaining sufficient capital through internal cash flow, bank borrowings, asset sales or the issuance of debt or 33 Table of Contents equity securities. There can be no assurance that internal cash flow and other capital sources will provide sufficient funds to maintain capital expenditures that we believe are necessary to offset inherent declines in production and proven reserves. Our opinions concerning liquidity and our ability to avail ourselves in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward looking statements are based on currently available information. If this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely affected. Factors that affect the availability of financing include our performance, the state of the worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the global financial climate and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the level of our working capital or outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies. For additional information, see Risk Factors Difficult Conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in Item 1A of this report. Credit Arrangements We maintain a $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which we refer to as our bank debt or our bank credit facility. The bank credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets and matures on October 25, 2012. Availability under the bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base set by the lenders semi annually with an option to set more often in certain circumstances. The borrowing base is dependent on a number of factors, primarily the lenders assessment of future cash flows. Redeterminations of the borrowing base require approval of 2/3rds of the lenders; increases require unanimous approval. At February 19, 2009, the bank credit facility had a $1.5 billion borrowing base and a $1.25 billion facility amount. Remaining credit availability is $442.0 million on February 19, 2009. Our bank group is comprised of twenty six commercial banks, with no one bank holding more than 5.0% of the bank credit facility. We believe our large number of banks and relatively low commitment hold levels allows for sufficient lending capacity should we elect to increase our $1.25 billion commitment up to the $1.5 billion borrowing base and also allows for flexibility should there be additional consolidation within the banking sector. In December 2008, we elected to utilize the expansion option under the bank credit facility and increased our credit facility commitment by $250.0 million, which made the current commitment $1.25 billion. Our bank debt and our subordinated notes impose limitations on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments (as defined under the debt agreements for our bank debt and our subordinated notes). The debt agreements also contain customary covenants relating to debt incurrence, working capital, dividends and financial ratios. We were in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2008. Cash Flow Cash flows from operations are primarily affected by production volumes and commodity prices, net of the effects of settlements of our derivatives. Our cash flows from operations also are impacted by changes in working capital. We sell substantially all of our oil and gas production at the wellhead under floating market contracts. However, we generally hedge a substantial, but varying portion of our anticipated future oil and gas production for the next 12 to 24 months. Any payments due to counterparties under our derivative contracts should ultimately be funded by prices received from the sale of our production. Production receipts, however, often lag payments to the counterparties. Any interim cash needs are funded by borrowing under the credit facility. As of December 31, 2008, we have entered into hedging agreements covering 97.8 Bcfe for 2009. Net cash provided from continuing operations in 2008 was $824.8 million, compared to $632.1 million in 2007 and $441.5 million in 2006. The increase in cash provided by operating activities from 2007 to 2008 and from 2006 to 2007 was primarily due to increased production from acquisitions and development activity and higher price realizations. Cash provided from operations is largely dependent upon prices received for oil and gas production. As of February 19, 2009, we have hedged approximately 77% of our 2009 projected production. Net cash provided from continuing operations is also affected by working capital changes or the timing of cash receipts and disbursements. Changes in working capital (as reflected in the consolidated statement of cash flows) for 2008 was a positive $20.2 million compared to a negative $13.0 million in 2007 and a positive $20.3 million in 2006. Net cash used in investing activities in 2008 was $1.7 billion compared to $1.0 billion in 2007 and $911.7 million in 2006. In 2008, we spent $881.9 million on additions to oil and gas properties, $834.8 million on acquisitions and $44.2 million on equity method investments and other assets. Acquisitions in 2008 include the purchase of producing and non producing Barnett Shale properties and Marcellus Shale leasehold. In 2007, we spent $782.4 million in additions to oil and gas properties, $336.5 million on acquisitions and $94.7 million on equity method investments. Acquisitions in 2007 included acquiring additional interests in the Nora field of Virginia where we entered into a joint development plan with Equitable Resources, Inc. Also in 2007, we recognized proceeds of $234.3 million from the sale of assets. The 2006 period included $487.2 million in additions to oil and gas properties and $360.1 million of acquisitions. Acquisitions in 2006 include the purchase of Stroud Energy, Inc., which had operations in the Barnett Shale. 34 Table of Contents Net cash provided from financing activities in 2008 was $903.7 million, compared to $379.9 million in 2007 and $429.4 million in 2006. Historically, sources of financing have been primarily bank borrowings and capital raised through equity and debt offerings. During 2008, we received proceeds of $250.0 million from the issuance of our 7.25% senior subordinated notes and proceeds of $282.2 million from a common stock offering. During 2007, we received proceeds of $250.0 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 and proceeds of $280.4 million from a common stock offering. During 2006, we received proceeds of $249.5 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016. In 2008, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $10.0 million of our common stock. During 2008, we expended $3.2 million to acquire 78,400 shares. Capital Requirements Our primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, repayment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and payment of dividends. During 2008, $930.1 million of capital was expended on drilling projects. Also in 2008, $845.5 million was expended on acquisitions of additional interests in producing properties and unproved acreage. The capital program, excluding acquisitions, was funded by net cash flow from operations, proceeds from asset sales, debt and equity offerings and borrowings under our bank credit facility. Our capital expenditure budget for 2009 is currently set at $700.0 million, excluding acquisitions. Development and exploration activities are highly discretionary, and, for the foreseeable future, we expect such activities to be maintained at levels equal to internal cash flow. To the extent capital requirements exceed internal cash flow and proceeds from asset sales, debt or equity may be issued to fund these requirements. We currently believe we have sufficient liquidity and cash flow to meet our obligations for the next twelve months; however, a continued drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production or reserves could adversely affect our ability to fund capital expenditures and meet our financial obligations. We monitor our capital expenditures on a regular basis, adjusting the amount up or down and also between our operating regions, depending on commodity prices, cash flow and projected returns. Also, our obligations may change due to acquisitions, divestitures and continued growth. We may issue additional shares of stock, subordinated notes or other debt securities to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, extend maturities or to repay debt. Cash Dividend Payments The amount of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and primarily depends on earnings and capital expenditures. In 2008, we paid $24.6 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in each quarter). In 2007, we paid $19.1 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.03 per share in the third, second and first quarters). In 2006, we paid $12.2 million in dividends to our common stockholders ($0.03 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.02 per share in the third, second and first quarters). Cash Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations include long term debt, operating leases, drilling commitments, derivative obligations, other liabilities and transportation commitments. As of December 31, 2008, we do not have any capital leases nor have we entered into any material long term contracts for equipment. As of December 31, 2008, we do not have any significant off balance sheet debt or other such unrecorded obligations and we have not guaranteed the debt of any unrelated party. The table below provides estimates of the timing of future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place at December 31, 2008. In addition to the contractual obligations listed on the table below, our balance sheet at December 31, 2008 reflects accrued interest payable on our bank debt of $779,000 which is payable in first quarter 2009. We expect to make interest payments of $9.6 million per year on our 6.375% senior subordinated notes, $14.8 million per year on our 7.375% senior subordinated notes, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 and $18.1 million per year on our 7.25% senior subordinated notes. 35 Table of Contents The following summarizes our contractual financial obligations at December 31, 2008 and their future maturities. We expect to fund these contractual obligations with cash generated from operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility and proceeds from asset sales. Payment due by period 2010 and 2012 and 2009 2011 2013 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Bank debt due 2012 $ $ $ 693,000 (a) $ $ 693,000 7.375% senior subordinated notes due 2013 200,000 200,000 6.375% senior subordinated notes due 2015 150,000 150,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016 250,000 250,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 250,000 250,000 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2018 250,000 250,000 Other debt 105 105 Operating leases 10,284 19,479 9,585 9,257 48,605 Drilling rig commitments 26,850 116,800 31,685 175,335 Transportation commitments 17,369 32,995 25,861 69,145 145,370 Seismic agreements 900 900 1,800 Derivative obligations (b) 10 10 Asset retirement obligation liability (c) 2,055 10,197 1,233 69,972 83,457 Total contractual obligations (d) $ 57,468 $ 180,371 $ 961,469 $ 1,048,374 $ 2,247,682 (a) Due at termination date of our bank credit facility. We expect to renew our bank credit facility, but there is no assurance that can be accomplished. Interest paid on our bank credit facility would be approximately $20.1 million each year assuming no change in the interest rate or outstanding balance. (b) Derivative obligations represent net open derivative contracts valued as of December 31, 2008. While such payments will be funded by higher prices received from the sale of our production, production receipts may be received after our payments to counterparties, which can result in borrowings under our bank credit facility. (c) The ultimate settlement and timing cannot be precisely determined in advance. (d) This table excludes the liability for the deferred compensation plans since these obligations will be funded with existing plan assets. In addition to the amounts included in the above table, we have contracted with a pipeline company through 2017 to deliver natural gas production volumes in Appalachia from certain Marcellus Shale wells. The agreement calls for incremental increases over the initial 40,000 Mmbtu per day. These increases, which are contingent on certain pipeline modifications, are for 30,000 Mmbtu per day in March 2009, 30,000 Mmbtu per day in October 2009, 30,000 Mmbtu per day March 2010 and an additional 20,000 Mmbtu per day for July 2010 for a total increase of 110,000 Mmbtu per day. Delivery Commitments Under a sales agreement with Enterprise Products Operating, LLC, we have an obligation to deliver 30,000 Mmbtu per day of volume at various delivery points within the Barnett Shale basin. The contract, which began in 2008, extends for five years ending March 2013. As of December 31, 2008, remaining volumes to be delivered under this commitment are approximately 46.5 bcf. Hedging Oil and Gas Prices We use commodity based derivative contracts to manage exposure to commodity price fluctuations. We do not enter into these arrangements for speculative or trading purposes. These contracts consist of collars and fixed price swaps. We do not utilize complex derivatives such as swaptions, knockouts or extendable swaps. While there is a risk that the financial benefit of rising oil and gas prices may not be captured, we believe the benefits of stable and predictable cash flow are more important. Among these benefits are a more efficient utilization of existing personnel and planning for future staff additions, the flexibility to enter into long term projects requiring substantial committed capital, smoother and more efficient execution of our ongoing development drilling and production enhancement programs, more consistent returns on invested capital, and better access to bank and other credit markets. At December 31, 2008, swaps were in place covering 25.6 Bcf of gas at prices averaging $8.38 per mcf. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas at weighted average floor and cap prices of $8.28 to $9.27 and 2.9 million barrels of oil at weighted average floor and cap prices of $64.01 to $76.00. Their fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be 36 Table of Contents realized or payable on termination, based on a comparison of the contract price and a reference price, generally NYMEX, approximated a pretax gain of $214.2 million at December 31, 2008. The contracts expire monthly through December 2009. At December 31, 2008, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Average Hedge Price Natural Gas 2009 Swaps 70,000 Mmbtu/day $8.38 2009 Collars 150,000 Mmbtu/day $8.28 $9.27 Crude Oil 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $64.01 $76.00 In addition to the swaps and collars above, we have entered into basis swap agreements. The price we receive for our production can be less than NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net unrealized pre tax gain of $12.4 million at December 31, 2008. Interest Rates At December 31, 2008, we had $1.8 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $1.1 billion bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $693.0 million bears interest at floating rates, which averaged 2.9% at year end 2008. The 30 day LIBOR rate on December 31, 2008 was 0.4%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 would cost us approximately $6.9 million in additional annual interest expense. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently utilize any off balance sheet arrangements with unconsolidated entities to enhance our liquidity or capital resource position, or for any other purpose. However, as is customary in the oil and gas industry, we have various contractual work commitments as described above under cash contractual obligations. Inflation and Changes in Prices Our revenues, the value of our assets and our ability to obtain bank loans or additional capital on attractive terms have been and will continue to be affected by changes in oil and gas prices and the costs to produce our reserves. Oil and gas prices are subject to significant fluctuations that are beyond our ability to control or predict. In a trend that began in the fourth quarter of 2008 and has continued into 2009, the industry has experienced deteriorating basis differentials in the Mid Continent and West Texas areas primarily caused by an over supply of gas in these regions. Although certain of our costs and expenses are affected by general inflation, inflation does not normally have a significant effect on our business. In a trend that began in 2004 and accelerated through the middle of 2008, commodity prices for oil and gas increased significantly. The higher prices have led to increased activity in the industry and, consequently, rising costs. These cost trends have put pressure not only on our operating costs but also on our capital costs. Due to the decline in commodity prices in the last half of 2008, we expect these costs to moderate in 2009. 37 Table of Contents The following table indicates the average oil and gas prices received over the last five years and quarterly for 2008, 2007 and 2006. Average price calculations exclude all derivative settlements whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Oil is converted to natural gas equivalent at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Average Sales Prices (Wellhead) Average NYMEX Prices (a) Crude Natural Equivalent Crude Natural Oil Gas Mcf Oil Gas (Per bbl) (Per mcf) (Per mcfe) (Per bbl) (Per mcf) Annual 2008 $ 96.77 $ 8.07 $ 9.14 $ 100.47 $ 8.91 2007 67.47 6.54 7.37 72.34 6.92 2006 62.36 6.59 7.25 66.22 7.26 2005 53.30 8.00 7.99 56.56 8.55 2004 39.20 5.80 5.79 41.41 6.09 Quarterly 2008 First $ 94.65 $ 7.85 $ 8.96 $ 97.90 $ 8.07 Second 120.27 10.09 11.48 123.98 10.80 Third 113.91 9.72 10.90 117.83 10.08 Fourth 55.09 4.86 5.43 58.79 6.82 2007 First $ 56.01 $ 6.41 $ 6.88 $ 58.27 $ 6.96 Second 62.20 6.95 7.57 65.03 7.56 Third 70.51 5.97 7.01 75.38 6.13 Fourth 82.12 6.80 7.94 90.68 7.03 2006 First $ 59.74 $ 8.33 $ 8.41 $ 63.48 $ 9.07 Second 65.36 6.28 7.17 70.70 6.82 Third 64.53 6.12 7.00 70.48 6.53 Fourth 59.80 5.91 6.58 60.21 6.62 (a) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. Debt Ratings We receive debt credit ratings from Standard Poors Ratings Group, Inc. (SP) and Moodys Investor Services, Inc. (Moodys), which are subject to regular reviews. SPs rating for us is BB with a stable outlook. Moodys rating for us is Ba2 with a stable outlook. We believe that SP and Moodys consider many factors in determining our ratings including: production growth opportunities, liquidity, debt levels, asset, and proved reserve mix. We also believe that the rating agencies take into consideration our size, corporate structure, the complexity of our capital structure and organization, and history of how we have chosen to finance our growth. We believe that our simple balance sheet, singular line of business, and practice of funding our growth with a balanced mix of long term debt and common equity positively impact our ratings. In addition to qualitative and quantitative factors unique to Range, we believe that the rating agencies consider various macro economic factors such as the projected future price of oil and gas, trends in industry service costs, and global supply and demand for energy. Based upon the factors influencing our credit ratings which are within our control, we are not currently aware of any reason why our credit rating would change materially from the present ratings. A reduction in our debt ratings could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing or the interest rate, fees and other terms associated with such additional financing. 38 Table of Contents Managements Discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used. Certain accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (a) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the level of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to changes; and (b) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Oil and Gas Properties We use the successful efforts method to account for exploration and development expenditures. Unsuccessful exploration drilling costs are expensed and can have a significant effect on reported operating results. Successful exploration drilling costs and all development costs are capitalized and systematically charged to expense using the units of production method based on proved developed oil and gas reserves as estimated by our engineers and reviewed by independent engineers. Costs incurred for exploratory wells that find reserves that cannot yet be classified as proved are capitalized on our balance sheet if (a) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and (b) we are making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Proven property leasehold costs are amortized to expense using the units of production method based on total proved reserves. Properties are assessed for impairment as circumstances warrant (at least annually) and impairments to value are charged to expense. The successful efforts method inherently relies upon the estimation of proved reserves, which includes proved developed and proved undeveloped volumes. Proved reserves are defined by the SEC as those volumes of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed reserves are volumes expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Although our engineers are knowledgeable of and follow the guidelines for reserves established by the SEC, the estimation of reserves requires engineers to make a significant number of assumptions based on professional judgment. Reserve estimates are updated at least annually and consider recent production levels and other technical information. Estimated reserves are often subject to future revisions, which could be substantial, based on the availability of additional information, including: reservoir performance, new geological and geophysical data, additional drilling, technological advancements, price and cost changes and other economic factors. Changes in oil and gas prices can lead to a decision to start up or shut in production, which can lead to revisions to reserve quantities. Reserve revisions in turn cause adjustments in the depletion rates used by us. We cannot predict what reserve revisions may be required in future periods. Reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering who reports directly to our President. To further ensure the reliability of our reserve estimates, we engage independent petroleum consultants to review our estimates of proved reserves. Independent petroleum consultants reviewed 87% of our reserves in 2008 compared to 86% in 2007 and 2006. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. The reserves included in this report are those reserves estimated by our employees. Depletion rates are determined based on reserve quantity estimates and the capitalized costs of producing properties. As the estimated reserves are adjusted, the depletion expense for a property will change, assuming no change in production volumes or the capitalized costs. While total depletion expense for the life of a property is limited to the propertys total cost, proved reserve revisions result in a change in timing when depletion expense is recognized. Downward revisions of proved reserves result in an acceleration of depletion expense, while upward revisions tend to lower the rate of depletion expense 39 Table of Contents recognition. Based on proved reserves at December 31, 2008, we estimate that a 1% change in proved reserves would increase or decrease 2009 depletion expense by approximately $3.0 million (assuming a 10% production increase). Estimated reserves are used as the basis for calculating the expected future cash flows from a property, which are used to determine whether that property may be impaired. Reserves are also used to estimate the supplemental disclosure of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil and gas producing activities and reserve quantities in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. Changes in the estimated reserves are considered in estimates for accounting purposes and are reflected on a prospective basis. We monitor our long lived assets recorded in property, plant and equipment in our consolidated balance sheet to ensure they are fairly presented. We must evaluate our properties for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset could exceed its fair value. A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these evaluations since the results are based on estimated future events. Such events include a projection of future oil and gas sales prices, an estimate of the ultimate amount of recoverable oil and gas reserves that will be produced from a field, the timing of future production, future production costs, future abandonment costs, and future inflation. The need to test a property for impairment can be based on several factors, including a significant reduction in sales prices for oil and or gas, unfavorable adjustments to reserves, physical damage to production equipment and facilities, a change in costs, or other changes to contracts or environmental regulations. All of these factors must be considered when testing a propertys carrying value for impairment. The review is done by determining if the historical cost of proved properties less the applicable accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization is less than the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows. The expected future net cash flows are estimated based on our plans to produce and develop proved reserves. Expected future net cash inflow from the sale of production of reserves is calculated based on estimated future prices and estimated operating and development costs. We estimate prices based upon market related information including published futures prices. The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions surrounding future levels of prices and costs, field decline rates, market demand and supply, the economic and regulatory climates. When the carrying value exceeds the sum of future net cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the estimated fair market value (as determined by discounted future net cash flows) and the carrying value of the asset. We cannot predict whether impairment charges may be required in the future. Our historical impairment of producing properties has been $74.9 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2004, $31.1 million in 2001, $29.9 million in 1999 and $214.7 million in 1998. We believe that a sensitivity analysis regarding the effect of changes in assumptions on estimated impairment is impractical to provide because of the number of assumptions and variables involved which have interdependent effects on the potential outcome. We are required to develop estimates of fair value to allocate purchase prices paid to acquire businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price paid to acquire a business is allocated to its assets and liabilities based on the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. We use all available information to make these fair value determinations. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for information on these acquisitions. We adhere to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies, for recognizing any impairment of capitalized costs to unproved properties. The greatest portion of these costs generally relate to the acquisition of leaseholds. The costs are capitalized and periodically evaluated (at least quarterly) as to recoverability, based on changes brought about by economic factors and potential shifts in business strategy employed by management. We consider a combination of time, geologic and engineering factors to evaluate the need for impairment of these costs. Unproved properties had a net book value of $766.2 million in 2008 compared to $271.4 million in 2007 and $226.3 million in 2006. We have recorded abandonment and impairment expense related to unproved properties of $47.9 million in 2008 compared to $6.8 million in 2007 and $257,000 in 2006. Oil and Gas Derivatives We enter into derivative contracts to mitigate our exposure to commodity price risk associated with future oil and gas production. These contracts have historically consisted of options, in the form of collars, and fixed price swaps. Every derivative instrument is required to be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or a liability measured at its fair value. We record these values on our balance sheet as either Unrealized derivative gains or Unrealized derivative losses. If a derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of effective portion are recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the balance sheet, which is later transferred to earnings when the hedged transaction occurs. Realized gains or losses of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are included in oil and gas sales in our statement of operations. Oil and gas sales include $63.6 million of losses in 2008 compared to gains of $4.2 million in 2007 and losses of $93.2 million in 2006. 40 Table of Contents Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges but are, to a degree, an economic offset of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method, all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts are recognized in our consolidated statement of operations under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). As of December 31, 2008, derivatives for 40.1 Bcfe no longer qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting. We have also entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting and are also marked to market. The price we receive for our gas production can be less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location, or basis, relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreement that effectively fix our basis adjustments for a portion of our production. On January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157 for those financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value in our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. It does not require us to make any new fair value measurements, but rather establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their value. Hierarchical levels defined by SFAS No. 157 and directly related to the amount of subjectivity associated with the inputs to fair valuation of these assets and liabilities are as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date. Level 2 Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1, which are directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date. Level 2 includes those financial instruments that are valued using models or other valuation methodologies. These models are primarily industry standard models that consider assumptions, including quoted forward prices for commodities, time value, volatility factors and current market and contractual prices for underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economics measures. Our derivatives, which consist primarily of commodity swaps and collars, are valued using commodity market data, which is derived by combining raw inputs and quantitative models and processes to generate forward curves. Where observable inputs are available, directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, the instrument is categorized in Level 2. Level 3 Pricing inputs include significant inputs that are generally less observable from objective sources. These inputs may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in managements best estimate of fair value. At December 31, 2008, we have no Level 3 measurements. For Range, the primary impact from the adoption of SFAS No. 157 at January 1, 2008 related to the fair value measurement of our marketable securities held in our deferred compensation plan and the fair value measurement of our derivative instruments. FSP FAS 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157, deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for one year for certain non financial asset and non financial liabilities, which for us includes the initial measurement of asset retirement obligations. We will adopt SFAS 157 for non financial assets and liabilities effective January 1, 2009 and it is not expected to have a significant impact on our reported financial position or earnings. We use a market approach for our value measurements. The assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our trading securities in Level 1 are exchange traded and measured at fair value with a market approach using December 31, 2008 market values. Our commodity derivatives in Level 2 are measured using third party pricing services which have been corroborated with data from active markets or broker quotes. Our exposure is diversified among major investment grade financial institutions and we have master netting agreements with the majority of our counterparties that provide for offsetting payables against receivables from separate derivative contracts. Our derivative counterparties include twelve financial institutions, ten of which are secured lenders in our bank credit facility. We have two counterparties that are not part of our bank group and three counterparties in our bank group with no master netting agreements. Mitsui Co. and J. Aron Company are the two counterparties not in our bank group. At December 31, 2008, our net derivative receivable includes a receivable from J. Aron Company of $987,000 and a receivable from Mitsui Co. of $18.0 million. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, counterparty credit risk is considered when determining the fair value of our derivative contracts. While our counterparties are major investment grade financial institutions, the fair value of our derivative contracts have been adjusted to account for the risk of non performance by the counterparty, which was immaterial. 41 Table of Contents Asset Retirement Obligations We have significant obligations to remove tangible equipment and restore land at the end of oil and gas production operations. Removal and restoration obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells. Estimating the future asset removal costs is difficult and requires us to make estimates and judgments because most of the removal obligations are many years in the future and contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what constitutes removal. Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are regulatory, political, environmental, safety and public relations considerations. Inherent in the fair value calculation are numerous assumptions and judgments including the ultimate retirement costs, inflation factors, credit adjusted discount rates, timing of retirement, and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and political environments. To the extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present value of the existing asset retirement obligation, (ARO), a corresponding adjustment is made to the oil and gas property balance. For example, as we analyze actual plugging and abandonment information, we may revise our estimate of current costs, the assumed annual inflation of the costs and or the assumed productive lives of our wells. During 2008, we increased our existing estimated asset retirement obligation by $2.4 million or approximately 3% of the asset retirement obligation at December 31, 2007. In addition, increases in the discounted ARO liability resulting from the passage of time are reflected as accretion expense, a component of depletion, depreciation and amortization in our consolidated statement of operations. Because of the subjectivity of assumptions and the relatively long lives of most of our wells, the costs to ultimately retire our wells may vary significantly from prior estimates. We do not provide for a market risk premium because a reliable estimate cannot be determined. Deferred Taxes We are subject to income and other taxes in all areas in which we operate. When recording income tax expense, certain estimates are required because income tax returns are generally filed many months after the close of a calendar year, tax returns are subject to audit, which can take years to complete, and future events often impact the timing of when income tax expenses and benefits are recognized. We have deferred tax assets relating to tax operating loss carryforwards and other deductible differences. We routinely evaluate deferred tax assets to determine the likelihood of realization. A valuation allowance is recognized on deferred tax assets when we believe that certain of these assets are not likely to be realized. In determining deferred tax liabilities, accounting rules require accumulated other comprehensive income to be considered, even though such income or loss has not yet been earned. At year end 2008, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $816.4 million, with $44.7 million of deferred tax liabilities related to unrealized hedging gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income. At year end 2007, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $563.9 million, with $16.3 million of deferred tax assets related to unrealized hedging losses included in OCI. We may be challenged by taxing authorities over the amount and or timing of recognition of revenues and deductions in our various income tax returns. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for all taxes, gains or losses could occur in the future due to changes in estimates or resolution of outstanding tax matters. Contingent Liabilities A provision for legal, environmental and other contingent matters is charged to expense when the loss is probable and the cost or range of cost can be reasonably estimated. Judgment is often required to determine when expenses should be recorded for legal, environmental and contingent matters. In addition, we often must estimate the amount of such losses. In many cases, our judgment is based on the input of our legal advisors and on the interpretation of laws and regulations, which can be interpreted differently by regulators and or the courts. We monitor known and potential legal, environmental and other contingent matters and make our best estimate of when to record losses for these matters based on available information. Although we continue to monitor all contingencies closely, particularly our outstanding litigation, we currently have no material accruals for contingent liabilities. Revenue Recognition Oil, gas and natural gas liquids are recognized when the products are sold and delivery to the purchaser has occurred. We use the sales method to account for gas imbalances, recognizing revenue based on gas delivered rather than our working interest share of gas produced. We recognize the cost of revenues, such as transportation and compression expense, as a reduction of revenue. 42 Table of Contents Stock based Compensation We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. We previously accounted for stock awards under the recognition and measurement principles of ABB No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations. Prior to January 1, 2006 stock based employee compensation for restricted stock was reflected in our statement of operations, but no compensation expense was recognized for stock options granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method. Under the modified prospective application method, we have applied the standards to awards made after adoption. Additionally, compensation cost for the unvested portion of stock awards outstanding as of January 1, 2006 has been recognized as compensation expense as the requisite service is rendered after January 1, 2006. We recognize stock based compensation on a straight line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. The expense we recognize is net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate our forfeiture rate based on prior experience and adjust it as circumstances warrant. The Compensation Committee grants restricted stock to certain employees and to non employee directors of the Board of Directors as part of their compensation. Compensation expense is recognized over the balance of the vesting period, which is typically three years for employee grants and immediate vesting for non employee directors. All restricted shares that are granted are placed in the deferred compensation plan. All vested restricted stock held in our deferred compensation plan is marked to market each reporting period based on the market value of our stock. This mark to market is presented in the caption deferred compensation plan in our statement of operations. See additional information in Note 12. The fair value of stock options and stock settled SARs is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. The model employs various assumptions, based on managements best estimates at the time of the grant, which impact the fair value calculated and ultimately, the expense that is recognized over the life of the award. The fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted In June 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position No. EITF 03 6 1 Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions are Participating Securities, (FSP EITF 03 6 1) which provides that unvested share based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share under the two class method. FSP EITF 03 6 1 is effective for us January 1, 2009 and all prior period EPS data (including any amounts related to interim periods, summaries of earnings and selected financial data) will be adjusted retroactively to conform to its provisions. Early application of FSP EITF 03 6 1 is not permitted. Although restricted stock awards meet this definition, we do not expect the application of FSP 03 6 1 to have a significant impact on our reported earnings per share. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosure about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133 with the intent to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of: (i) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; (ii) how derivative instruments and related hedge items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations; and (iii) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for us January 1, 2009 and will only impact future disclosure about our derivative instruments and hedging activities. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) replaces SFAS No. 141. The statement retains the purchase method of accounting for acquisitions, but requires a number of changes, including changes in the way assets and liabilities are recognized in the purchase accounting. It changes the recognition of assets acquired and liabilities assumed arising from contingencies, requires the capitalization of in process research and development at fair value, and requires the expensing of acquisition related costs as incurred. The statement will apply prospectively to business combinations occurring in our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2009. The effect of adopting SFAS No. 141(R) is not expected to have an effect on our reported financial position or earnings. ITEM 7A. QUANTITIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil and gas prices and interest rates. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, 43 Table of Contents but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposure. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. All accounts are US dollar denominated. Financial Market Risk The debt and equity markets have recently exhibited adverse conditions. The unprecedented volatility and upheaval in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing debt instruments due to increased spreads over relevant interest rate benchmarks and may affect our ability to access those markets. At this point, we do not believe our liquidity has been materially affected by the recent events in the global markets and we do not expect our liquidity to be materially impacted in the near future. We will continue to monitor our liquidity and the capital markets. Additionally, we will continue to monitor events and circumstances surrounding each of our twenty six lenders in the bank credit facility. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors. Market Risk Our major market risk is exposure to oil and gas prices. Realized prices are primarily driven by worldwide prices for oil and spot market prices for North American gas production. Oil and gas prices have been volatile and unpredictable for many years. Commodity Price Risk We periodically enter into derivative arrangements with respect to our oil and gas production. These arrangements are intended to reduce the impact of oil and gas price fluctuations. Certain of our derivatives are swaps where we receive a fixed price for our production and pay market prices to the counterparty. Our derivatives program also includes collars, which establish a minimum floor price and a predetermined ceiling price. As of December 31, 2008, we had oil and gas swaps in place covering 25.6 Bcf of gas. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas and 2.9 million barrels of oil. These contracts expire monthly through December 2009. The fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized upon immediate liquidation as of December 31, 2008, approximated a net unrealized pre tax gain of $214.2 million. At December 31, 2008, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Average Fair Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Hedge Price Market Value (in thousands) Natural Gas 2009 Swaps 70,000 Mmbtu/day $8.38 $ 57,280 2009 Collars 150,000 Mmbtu/day $8.28 $9.27 $ 121,781 Crude Oil 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $64.01 $76.00 $ 35,166 Other Commodity Risk We are impacted by basis risk, caused by factors that affect the relationship between commodity futures prices reflected in derivative commodity instruments and the cash market price of the underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices experienced in local markets. If commodity price changes in one region are not reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased basis risk. In addition to the collars and swaps above, we have entered into basis swap agreements. The price we receive for our gas production can be more or less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net realized pre tax gain of $12.4 million at December 31, 2008. 44 Table of Contents The following table shows the fair value of our swaps and collars and the hypothetical change in fair value that would result from a 10% change in commodities prices at December 31, 2008. The hypothetical change in fair value would be a gain or loss depending on whether prices increase or decrease (in thousands): Hypothetical Change in Fair Value Fair Value Swaps $ 57,280 $ 15,000 Collars $ 156,947 $ 45,000 Our commodity based contracts expose us to the credit risk of non performance by the counterparty to the contracts. Our exposure is diversified among major investment grade financial institutions and we have master netting agreements with the majority of our counterparties that provide for offsetting payables against receivables from separate derivative contracts. Our derivative counterparties include twelve financial institutions, ten of which are secured lenders in our bank credit facility. We have two counterparties that are not part of our bank group and three counterparties in our bank group with no master netting agreement. Mitsui Co. and J. Aron Company are the two counterparties not in our bank group. At December 31, 2008, our net derivative receivable includes a receivable from J. Aron Company of $987,000 and a receivable from Mitsui Co. of $18.0 million. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, counterparty credit risk is considered when determining the fair value of our derivative contracts. While counterparties are major investment grade financial institutions, the fair value of our derivative contracts have been adjusted to account for the risk of non performance by counterparty, which was immaterial. Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to interest rate risk on our bank debt. We attempt to balance variable rate debt, fixed rate debt and debt maturities to manage interest costs, interest rate volatility and financing risk. This is accomplished through a mix of fixed rate senior subordinated debt and variable rate bank debt. At December 31, 2008, we had $1.8 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $1.1 billion bears interest at a fixed rate averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $693.0 million bears interest at floating rates, which was 2.9% on that date. On December 31, 2008, the 30 day LIBOR rate was 0.4%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 would cost us approximately $6.9 million in additional annual interest expense. The fair value of our subordinated debt is based on year end quoted market prices. The following table presents information on these fair values (in thousands): Carrying Fair Value Value Fixed rate debt: Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 $ 197,968 $ 181,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 150,000 121,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 6.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 249,595 212,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 250,000 209,375 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 250,000 206,250 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.25%) $ 1,097,563 $ 931,125 45 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our business and results of operations together with our present financial condition. This section should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Statements in our discussion may be forward looking. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that a number of factors could cause future production, revenues and expenses to differ materially from our expectations. See Disclosures Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Annual Report and Risk Factors in Item 1A for additional discussion of some of these factors and risks. Overview of Our Business We are an independent oil and gas company engaged in the exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, primarily in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. We operate in one segment. We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Our strategy is to increase reserves and production through internally generated drilling projects coupled with complementary acquisitions. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and gas and on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas activities. Our corporate headquarters are in Fort Worth, Texas. Industry Environment We operate entirely within the United States, a mature region for the exploration and production of oil and gas. Although new discoveries of oil and gas occur in the United States, because it is a mature region, the size and frequency of these discoveries is generally declining, while finding and development costs are increasing. We believe that there remain areas of the United States, such as the Appalachian Basin and certain areas in our Southwest and Gulf Coast Areas that are underexplored or have not been fully explored and developed with the benefit of newly available exploration and production reservoir enhancement technology. Examples of such technology include advanced 3 D seismic processing, hydraulic reservoir fracture stimulation, advances in well logging and analysis, horizontal drilling and completion techniques, secondary and tertiary recovery practices, and automated remote well monitoring and control devices. Oil and gas are commodities. The price that we receive for the natural gas we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand for natural gas in the United States increased dramatically during this decade; however, the current economic slowdown has reduced this demand over the second half of 2008 and is continuing into 2009. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile and we expect the volatility to continue in the future. Factors impacting the future supply balance are the growth in domestic gas production and the increase in the United States LNG import capacity. Significant LNG capacity increases have been announced which may allow for more LNG imports resulting in increased price volatility. A substantial or extended decline in oil and gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and gas reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets. Realized oil and gas average prices increased from 2007 to 2008. As a result of narrowing excess worldwide capacity, weakness in the dollar, and continuing tension in the Middle East, oil reached a record price of $147.00 per Bbl in July 2008. However, rising crude oil supplies, the tightened credit markets and lower demand in the slowing U.S and global economies have caused recent oil prices to decline. Oil prices are expected to remain volatile. Although our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) received for oil and gas was $8.58 per mcfe in the year ended December 31, 2008, prices were bolstered by record oil prices in the first half of the year. In fourth quarter 2008, our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) declined to $6.86 per mcfe. In a trend that began in the fourth quarter of 2008 and has continued into 2009, the industry has experienced deteriorating basis differentials in the Midcontinent and West Texas areas primarily caused by an over supply of gas in these regions. 25 Table of Contents Capital Budget for 2009 Our capital budget for 2009 is currently set at $700.0 million, excluding acquisitions. The 2009 capital budget is less than the 2008 capital spending levels due to lower expected operating cash flows resulting from declining oil and gas prices. For 2009, we expect our cash flow to fund our capital budget. As has been our historical practice, we will periodically review our capital expenditures throughout the year and adjust the budget based on commodity prices and drilling success. Source of Our Revenues We derive our revenues from the sale of oil and gas that is produced from our properties. Revenues are a function of the volume produced, the prevailing market price at the time of sale, quality, Btu content and transportation costs to market. Production volumes and the price of oil and gas are the primary factors affecting our revenues. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to downward price fluctuations, we use derivative instruments to hedge future sales prices on a significant portion of our gas and oil production. During 2008 and 2006, the use of derivative instruments prevented us from realizing the full benefit of upward price movements and may do so in future periods. Our average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements) include both the effects of the settlement of derivative contracts that are accounted for as hedges and the settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges. Principal Components of Our Cost Structure Direct Operating Expenses. These are day to day costs incurred to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market together with the daily costs incurred to maintain our producing properties. Such costs also include maintenance, repairs and workovers expenses related to our oil and gas properties. These costs are expected to moderate in 2009 as we expect industry demand for these services to decline. Direct operating expenses also include stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with equity grants of stock appreciation rights (SARs) and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. Production taxes are paid on produced oil and gas based on a percentage of market prices (not hedged prices) or at fixed rates established by federal, state or local taxing authorities. Ad valorem taxes are taxes generally based on reserve values at the end of each year. Exploration Expense. These are geological and geophysical costs, including payroll and benefits for the geological and geophysical staff, seismic costs, delay rentals and the costs of unsuccessful exploratory dry holes. Exploration expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with equity grants of SARs and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. General and Administrative Expense. These costs include overhead, including payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, costs of managing our production and development operations, franchise taxes, audit and other professional fees and legal compliance are included in general and administrative expense. General and administrative expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with equity grants of SARs and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties. This category includes unproved property impairment and costs associated with lease expirations. Interest. We typically finance a portion of our working capital requirements and acquisitions with borrowings under our bank credit facility and with our longer term debt securities. As a result, we incur substantial interest expense that is affected by both fluctuations in interest rates and our financing decisions. We will likely continue to incur significant interest expense as we continue to grow. We expect our 2009 capital budget to be funded primarily with internal cash flow. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. This includes the systematic expensing of the capitalized costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop gas and oil. As a successful efforts company, we capitalize all costs associated with our acquisition and development efforts and all successful exploration efforts, and apportion these costs to each unit of production through depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. This expense also includes the systematic, monthly accretion of the future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. Income Taxes. We are subject to state and federal income taxes but are currently not in a tax paying position for regular federal income taxes, primarily due to the current deductibility of intangible drilling costs (IDC). We do pay some state income taxes where our IDC deductions do not exceed our taxable income or where state income taxes are determined on another basis. Currently, substantially all of our federal taxes are deferred; however, at some point, we anticipate using all of our net operating loss carryforwards and we will recognize current income tax expense and continue to recognize current tax expense as long as we are generating taxable income. 26 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income and Operations Overview of 2008 Results During 2008, we achieved the following results: Achieved 21% production growth and 19% reserve growth; Drilled 490 net wells with a 98% success rate; Continued expansion of emerging plays; Posted record financial results and maintained a strong balance sheet; Completed acquisitions of properties containing 95.6 Bcfe of proved reserves; and Completed $68.2 million of asset sales. Our 2008 performance reflects another year of successfully executing our strategy of growth through drilling supplemented by complementary acquisitions. The business of exploring for, developing, and acquiring oil and gas is highly competitive and capital intensive. As in any commodity business, the costs associated with finding, acquiring, extracting, and financing our operations are critical to profitability and long term value creation for stockholders. Generating meaningful growth while containing costs presents an ongoing challenge. During the recent period of historically high oil and gas prices, drilling service and operating costs generally increased due to increased competition for goods and services. Prices for oil and gas dramatically declined in the last half of 2008 and we are presently experiencing reductions in service costs which vary by region. We faced other challenges in 2008 including attracting and retaining qualified personnel, consummating and integrating acquisitions, accessing the capital markets to fund our growth on sufficiently favorable terms and introducing new oil and gas extraction technologies into new regions and projects such as the Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale. We have continued to expand and improve the technical staff through the hiring of additional experienced professionals. Our inventory of exploration and development prospects continues to be strong, providing new growth opportunities, greater diversification of technical risk and better efficiency. Total revenues increased 53% in 2008 over the same period of 2007. This increase is due to higher production and higher realized oil and gas prices. Our 2008 production growth is due to the continued success of our drilling program and to acquisitions completed in 2006 and 2007. Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements) were 7% higher in 2008, although realized prices declined sharply in the last half of 2008. As discussed in Item 1A of this report, significant changes in oil and gas prices can have a material impact on our balance sheet and our results of operations, including the fair value of our derivatives. All of our expenses have increased on both an absolute and per mcfe basis when compared to 2007, due to higher overall industry costs, higher compensation expense resulting from additional employees, increased salaries and higher levels of activity. While overall costs were higher, the rate of inflation experienced in our industry has moderated for some goods and services as commodity prices weakened. The availability of goods and services continues to be mixed, based on region and service company expertise. We continue to experience competition for technical and experienced personnel and overall compensation inflation in our industry has moderated. It is difficult for us to forecast price trends, supply, service or personnel availability, any of which, if changed in an adverse manner, would significantly impact both operating costs and capital expenditures. As we continue to have Marcellus wells shut in waiting on pipeline and processing facilities and we continue to expand our Marcellus operating team to meet the needs of this developing asset, we expect to see continued upward pressure on our cost structure. The initial phase of the pipeline and processing infrastructure was completed in fourth quarter 2008 with additional expansions set for 2009 and later. 27 Table of Contents Oil and Gas Sales, Production and Realized Price Calculations Our oil and gas sales vary from year to year as a result of changes in realized commodity prices and production volumes. Hedges included in oil and gas sales reflect settlements on those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting. Cash settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges are included in the income statement caption called Derivative fair value income (loss). Oil and gas sales increased 42% from 2007 due to a 21% increase in production and a 17% increase in realized prices. Oil and gas sales in 2007 increased 44% from 2006 due to a 22% increase in production and an 18% increase in realized prices. The following table illustrates the primary components of oil and gas sales for each of the last three years (in thousands): 2008 2007 2006 Oil and Gas Sales Oil wellhead $ 298,482 $ 226,686 $ 189,516 Oil hedges realized (72,135 ) (23,755 ) (45,265 ) Total oil revenue $ 226,347 $ 202,931 $ 144,251 Gas wellhead $ 923,160 $ 585,538 $ 466,099 Gas hedges realized 8,561 27,916 (47,916 ) Total gas revenue $ 931,721 $ 613,454 $ 418,183 Total NGL revenue $ 68,492 $ 46,152 $ 36,705 Combined wellhead $ 1,290,134 $ 858,376 $ 692,320 Combined hedges (63,574 ) 4,161 (93,181 ) Total oil and gas sales $ 1,226,560 $ 862,537 $ 599,139 Our production continues to grow through drilling success as we place new wells into production and through additions from acquisitions, partially offset by the natural decline of our oil and gas wells and asset sales. For 2008, our production volumes increased 18% in our Appalachia Area, increased 22% in our Southwest Area and increased 61% in our Gulf Coast Area. For 2007, our production volumes increased 15% in our Appalachia Area, increased 28% in our Southwest Area and declined 17% in our Gulf Coast Area. For 2006, our production volumes increased 10% in our Appalachia Area, increased 29% in our Southwest Area and declined 36% in our Gulf Coast Area. Our production for each of the last three years is set forth in the following table: 2008 2007 2006 Production Crude oil (bbls) 3,084,529 3,359,668 3,039,150 NGLs (bbls) 1,385,701 1,114,730 1,091,785 Natural gas (mcf) 114,323,436 89,594,626 70,712,770 Total (mcfe) (a) 141,144,816 116,441,014 95,498,380 Average daily production Crude oil (bbls) 8,428 9,205 8,326 NGLs (bbls) 3,786 3,054 2,991 Natural gas (mcf) 312,359 245,465 193,734 Total (mcfe) (a) 385,642 319,016 261,639 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. 28 Table of Contents Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) received for oil and gas during 2008 was $8.58 per mcfe compared to $8.02 per mcfe in 2007 and $6.80 per mcfe in 2006. Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) calculation includes all cash settlements for derivatives, whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Average price calculations for each of the last three years is shown below: 2008 2007 2006 Average Prices Average sales prices (wellhead): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 96.77 $ 67.47 $ 62.36 NGLs (per bbl) $ 49.43 $ 41.40 $ 33.62 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.07 $ 6.54 $ 6.59 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 9.14 $ 7.37 $ 7.25 Average realized prices (including derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 73.38 $ 60.40 $ 47.46 NGLs (per bbl) $ 49.43 $ 41.40 $ 33.62 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.15 $ 6.85 $ 5.91 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 8.69 $ 7.41 $ 6.27 Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 68.20 $ 60.16 $ 47.46 NGLs (per bbl) $ 49.43 $ 41.40 $ 33.62 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.15 $ 7.66 $ 6.62 Total (per mcfe) (a) $ 8.58 $ 8.02 $ 6.80 Average NYMEX prices (b): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 100.47 $ 72.34 $ 66.22 Natural gas (per mcf) $ 8.91 $ 6.92 $ 7.26 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. (b) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. 29 Table of Contents Derivative fair value income (loss) increased to a gain of $70.1 million in 2008 compared to a loss of $7.8 million in 2007 and a gain of $142.4 million in 2006. Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting but are, to a degree, an economic offset to our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method whereby all realized and unrealized gains and losses related to these contracts are included in Derivative fair value income (loss) in the revenue section of our statement of operations. Mark to market accounting treatment creates volatility in our revenues as gains and losses from derivatives are included in total revenues and are not included in our balance sheet in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As commodity prices increase or decrease, such changes will have an opposite effect on the mark to market value of our derivatives. Because oil and gas prices declined dramatically in the last half of 2008, our derivatives became comparatively more valuable. However, we expect these gains will be offset by lower wellhead revenues in the future. We have also entered into basis swap agreements to limit volatility caused by changing differentials between index and regional prices received. Basis swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting purposes and are marked to market. Hedge ineffectiveness, also included in Derivative fair value income (loss), is associated with our hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The following table presents information about the components of derivative fair value income (loss) for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands): 2008 2007 2006 Change in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting (a) $ 83,867 $ (78,769 ) $ 86,491 Realized (loss) gain on settlements gas (b) (c) (1,383 ) 71,098 49,939 Realized loss on settlements oil (b) (c) (15,431 ) (244 ) Hedge ineffectiveness realized (c) 1,386 968 unrealized (a) 1,696 (820 ) 5,965 Derivative fair value income (loss) $ 70,135 $ (7,767 ) $ 142,395 (a) These amounts are unrealized and are not included in average sales price calculations. (b) These amounts represent realized gains and losses on settled derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. (c) These settlements are included in average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements). Other revenue increased in 2008 to $21.7 million compared to $5.0 million in 2007 and $856,000 in 2006. The 2008 period includes a $20.2 million gain on the sale of assets and a loss from equity method investments of $218,000. The 2007 period includes income from equity method investments of $974,000 and other miscellaneous income. The 2006 period includes income from equity method investments of $548,000. Our costs have increased as we continue to grow. We believe some of our expense fluctuations are best analyzed on a unit of production, or per mcfe, basis. The following presents information about certain of our expenses on a per mcfe basis for 2008, 2007 and 2006. Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change Direct operating expense $ 1.01 $ 0.92 $ 0.09 10 % $ 0.92 $ 0.85 $ 0.07 8 % Production and ad valorem tax expense 0.39 0.36 0.03 8 % 0.36 0.38 (0.02 ) 5 % General and administrative expense 0.65 0.60 0.05 8 % 0.60 0.52 0.08 15 % Interest expense 0.71 0.67 0.04 6 % 0.67 0.58 0.09 15 % Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense 2.12 1.89 0.23 12 % 1.89 1.62 0.27 17 % 30 Table of Contents Direct operating expense was $142.4 million in 2008 compared to $107.5 million in 2007 and $81.3 million in 2006 due to higher oilfield service costs and higher volumes. Our operating expenses are increasing as we add new wells from development and acquisitions and maintain production from our existing properties. We incurred $9.9 million of workover costs in 2008 compared to $7.1 million in 2007 and $3.5 million in 2006. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses for 2008 increased $0.09 or 10% from the same period of 2007 with the increase consisting primarily of higher workover costs ($0.01 per mcfe), higher personnel and related costs ($0.02 per mcfe) along with higher equipment leasing costs ($0.02 per mcfe) and higher overall industry costs. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses for 2007 increased $0.07 or 8% from the same period of 2006 with the increase consisting primarily of higher workover costs ($0.02 per mcfe), higher water disposal costs ($0.02 per mcfe), higher well services and equipment costs ($0.04 per mcfe) and a $0.01 per mcfe increase in stock based compensation. Stock based compensation expense represents the amortization of our grants of restricted stock and SARs as part of employee compensation. The following table summarizes direct operating expenses per mcfe for 2008, 2007 and 2006: Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change Lease operating expense $ 0.92 $ 0.84 $ 0.08 10 % $ 0.84 $ 0.80 $ 0.04 5 % Workovers 0.07 0.06 0.01 17 % 0.06 0.04 0.02 50 % Stock based compensation (non cash) 0.02 0.02 % 0.02 0.01 0.01 100 % Total direct operating expenses $ 1.01 $ 0.92 $ 0.09 10 % $ 0.92 $ 0.85 $ 0.07 8 % Production and ad valorem taxes are paid based on market prices and not hedged prices. These costs were $55.2 million in 2008 compared to $42.4 million in 2007 and $36.4 million in 2006. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes increased to $0.39 in 2008 from $0.36 in the same period of 2007, primarily due to a 24% increase in pre hedge prices. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes decreased to $0.36 in 2007 from $0.38 in 2006 with lower ad valorem taxes per mcfe due to lower property tax rates in Texas as a result of the new margin tax. General and administrative expense was $92.3 million for 2008 compared to $69.7 million in 2007 and $49.9 million in 2006. The 2008 increase of $22.6 million when compared to the prior year is due primarily to higher salaries and benefits ($12.0 million) due to an increase in the number of employees (14%) and salary increases, higher stock based compensation ($5.6 million), higher legal and professional fees ($921,000), an allowance for bad debt expense of $450,000 and higher office expenses, including rent and information technology. Our personnel costs continue to increase as we invest in our technical teams and other staffing to support our expansion into new regions particularly the Marcellus shall play in Appalachia. General and administrative expenses for 2007 increased $19.8 million from the same period of 2006 due primarily to higher salaries and benefits ($10.4 million), higher stock based compensation ($4.0 million) and higher rent and office expense ($2.3 million). Stock based compensation expense represents the amortization of our grants of restricted stock and SARs to our employees and directors as part of compensation. The following table summarizes general and administrative expenses per mcfe for 2008, 2007 and 2006: Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change General and administrative $ 0.48 $ 0.44 $ 0.04 9 % $ 0.44 $ 0.37 $ 0.07 19 % Stock based compensation (non cash) 0.17 0.16 0.01 6 % 0.16 0.15 0.01 7 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 0.65 $ 0.60 $ 0.05 8 % $ 0.60 $ 0.52 $ 0.08 15 % Interest expense was $99.7 million for 2008 compared to $77.7 million in 2007 and $55.8 million in 2006. Interest expense for 2008 increased $22.0 million from the same period of 2007 due to the refinancing of certain debt from floating rates to higher fixed rates along with higher overall debt balances. In September 2007, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017, which added $13.9 million of additional interest costs in 2008. In May 2008, we issued $250.0 million of 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2018, which added $11.8 million of interest costs in 2008. The proceeds from both issuances were used to retire bank debt which carried a lower interest rate. The note issuances were undertaken to better match the maturities of our debt with the life of our properties and to give us greater liquidity for the near term. Average debt outstanding on the bank credit facility for 2008 was $494.2 million compared to $417.6 million for 2007 and the weighted average interest rate was 4.4% in 2008 compared to 6.4% in 2007. Interest expense for 2007 increased $21.9 million from the same period of 2006 due to higher average debt balances and the refinancing of certain debt from short term floating to longer term fixed rates. The issuance of the 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 in September 2007 added $4.8 million of interest costs in 2007. The issuance of the 7.5% senior subordinated notes in May 2006 added $9.1 million of interest expense in 2007. Average debt outstanding on the credit facility for 2007 was $417.6 million compared to $347.8 million in 2006. The weighted average interest rate was 6.4% in 2007 compared to 6.4% in the same period of 2006. 31 Table of Contents Depletion, depreciation and amortization (DDA) was $299.8 million in 2008 compared to $220.6 million in 2007 and $154.5 million in 2006. The increase in 2008 compared to the same period of 2007 is due to a 21% increase in production and a 14% increase in depletion rates. On a per mcfe basis, DDA increased to $2.12 in 2008 compared to $1.89 in 2007 and $1.62 in 2006. DDA expense increased $66.1 million or 43% in 2007 compared to the same period of 2006 due to a 22% increase in production and a 16% increase in depletion rates. The increase in DDA per mcfe is related to increasing drilling costs, higher acquisition costs and the mix of our production. The following table summarizes DDA expense per mcfe for 2008, 2007 and 2006: Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change % Change Depletion and amortization $ 1.99 $ 1.74 $ 0.25 14 % $ 1.74 $ 1.50 $ 0.24 16 % Depreciation 0.09 0.09 % 0.09 0.08 0.01 13 % Accretion and other 0.04 0.06 (0.02 ) 33 % 0.06 0.04 0.02 50 % Total DDA expense $ 2.12 $ 1.89 $ 0.23 12 % $ 1.89 $ 1.62 $ 0.27 17 % Other Operating Expenses Our total operating expenses also include other expenses that generally do not trend with production. These expenses include stock based compensation, exploration expense, abandonment and impairment of unproved properties and deferred compensation plan expenses. In 2008, stock based compensation is a component of direct operating expense ($2.8 million), exploration expense ($4.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($23.8 million) for a total of $31.2 million. In 2007, stock based compensation was a component of direct operating expense ($1.8 million), exploration expense ($3.5 million) and general and administrative expense ($18.2 million) for a total of $24.0 million. In 2006, stock based compensation was a component of direct operating expense ($1.4 million), exploration expense ($3.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($14.3 million) for a total of $19.1 million. Stock based compensation includes the amortization of restricted stock grants and SARs grants. These costs are increasing due to increasing grant date fair values and an increase in the number of grants on our increasing employee base. Exploration expense was $67.7 million in 2008 compared to $43.3 million in 2007 and $44.1 million in 2006. The following table details our exploration related expenses for 2008, 2007 and 2006 (in thousands): Year Ended Year Ended 2008 2007 Change % Change 2007 2006 Change %Change Dry hole expense $ 13,371 $ 15,149 $ (1,778 ) 12 % $ 15,149 $ 15,084 $ 65 % Seismic 30,645 10,933 19,712 180 % 10,933 15,277 (4,344 ) 28 % Personnel expense 11,804 8,924 2,880 32 % 8,924 6,917 2,007 29 % Stock based compensation expense 4,130 3,473 657 19 % 3,473 3,079 394 13 % Delay rentals and other 7,740 4,866 2,874 59 % 4,866 3,731 1,135 30 % Total exploration expense $ 67,690 $ 43,345 $ 24,345 56 % $ 43,345 $ 44,088 $ (743 ) 2 % Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties was $47.9 million in 2008 compared to $6.8 million in 2007 and $257,000 in 2006. This increase is primarily due to the significant increase in lease acquisition costs over the past three years and increased leasing activity in exploratory areas that require several years to delineate. As we continue to review our acreage positions and high grade our drilling inventory based on the current price environment, more leasehold impairments and abandonments will be recorded. Deferred compensation plan expense was a gain of $24.7 million in 2008 compared to a loss of $28.3 million in 2007 and a loss of $6.9 million in 2006. This non cash expense relates to the increase or decrease in value of the vested Range common stock held in our deferred compensation plan. The deferred compensation liability is adjusted to fair value by a charge or a credit to deferred compensation plan expense. The year ended 2008 decreased $53.0 million from the same period of 2007 due to a decline in our stock price, which decreased from $51.36 at December 31, 2007 to $34.39 at December 31, 2008. During the same period of the prior year, our stock price increased from $27.46 at December 31, 2006 to $51.36 at December 31, 2007. From December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006 our stock price increased from $26.34 to $27.46. Income tax expense was $196.4 million in 2008 compared to $98.8 million in 2007 and $121.8 million in 2006. The 2008 increase reflects a 104% increase in income from continuing operations before taxes compared to the same period of 2007. 2008 provided for tax expenses at an effective rate of 36.2% compared to an effective rate of 37.2% in the same period of 2007. For 2008, current income taxes of $4.3 million include state income taxes of $3.3 million and $1.0 million of federal income taxes. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was different than the statutory rate of 35% due to state income 32 Table of Contents taxes and $2.0 million of additional tax benefit related to discrete items. Income tax expense for 2007 decreased to $98.8 million, reflecting a 16% decrease in income from continuing operations before taxes compared to the same period of 2006. The year ended December 31, 2007 provided for tax expense at an effective rate of 37.2% compared to an effective rate of 38.6% in the same period of 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2007, current income taxes includes state income taxes of $449,000 and a benefit of $129,000 of federal income taxes. We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 37% for 2009. Discontinued operations in 2007 include the operating results related to our Gulf of Mexico properties and Austin Chalk properties sold in first quarter 2007. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Our main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, a bank credit facility with both uncommitted and committed availability, asset sales and access to the debt and equity capital markets. The debt and equity capital markets have recently exhibited adverse conditions. Continued volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing debt due to increased spreads over relevant interest rate benchmarks and affect our ability to access those markets. At this point, we do not believe our liquidity has been materially affected by the recent events in the global financial markets and we do not expect our liquidity to be materially impacted in the near future. We will continue to monitor our liquidity and the credit markets. Additionally, we will continue to monitor events and circumstances surrounding each of the twenty six lenders in our bank credit facility. To date we have experienced no disruptions in our ability to access the bank credit facility. However, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact to us of any further disruption in the credit environment. For additional information, see Risk Factors Difficult Conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in Item 1A of this report. In December 2008, we elected to utilize the expansion option under our bank credit facility and increased our credit facility commitment by $250.0 million, which makes the current bank commitment $1.25 billion. At December 31, 2008, our borrowing base was $1.5 billion. The borrowing base represents the amount approved by the bank group than can be borrowed based on our assets while the bank commitment (or facility amount) is the amount the banks have committed to fund pursuant to the credit agreement. We currently believe our maximum credit facility borrowing capacity exceeds our current borrowing base and, based on current circumstances, is sufficient to absorb a decline in commodity prices or any changes in bank lending practices. During 2008, our net cash provided from continuing operations of $824.8 million, proceeds from our April 2008 common stock offering of $282.2 million, proceeds from our May 2008 note offering of $250.0 million, proceeds from the sale of assets of $68.2 million and bank borrowings were used to fund $1.8 billion of capital expenditures (including acquisitions and equity investments). At December 31, 2008, we had $753,000 in cash and total assets of $5.6 billion. Our debt to capitalization ratio was 42% at December 31, 2008 compared to 40% at December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, our total capitalization was as follows (in thousands): 2008 2007 Bank debt $ 693,000 $ 303,500 Senior subordinated notes and other 1,097,668 847,158 Total debt 1,790,668 1,150,658 Stockholders equity 2,457,833 1,728,022 Total capitalization $ 4,248,501 $ 2,878,680 Debt to capitalization ratio 42 % 40 % Long term debt at December 31, 2008 totaled $1.8 billion, including $693.0 million of bank credit facility debt and $1.1 billion of senior subordinated notes. Our available committed borrowing capacity at December 31, 2008 was $557.0 million. Cash is required to fund capital expenditures necessary to offset inherent declines in production and reserves that are typical in the oil and gas industry. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on capital resources available and the success of finding or acquiring additional reserves. We currently believe that net cash generated from operating activities and unused committed borrowing capacity under the bank credit facility combined with our oil and gas price hedges currently in place will be adequate to satisfy near term financial obligations and liquidity needs. However, long term cash flows are subject to a number of variables including the level of production and prices as well as various economic conditions that have historically affected the oil and gas business. A material drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production and reserves would reduce our ability to fund capital expenditures, reduce debt, meet financial obligations and remain profitable. We operate in an environment with numerous financial and operating risks, including, but not limited to, the inherent risks of the search for, development and production of oil and gas, the ability to buy properties and sell production at prices which provide an attractive return and the highly competitive nature of the industry. Our ability to expand our reserve base is, in part, dependent on obtaining sufficient capital through internal cash flow, bank borrowings, asset sales or the issuance of debt or 33 Table of Contents equity securities. There can be no assurance that internal cash flow and other capital sources will provide sufficient funds to maintain capital expenditures that we believe are necessary to offset inherent declines in production and proven reserves. Our opinions concerning liquidity and our ability to avail ourselves in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward looking statements are based on currently available information. If this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely affected. Factors that affect the availability of financing include our performance, the state of the worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the global financial climate and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the level of our working capital or outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies. For additional information, see Risk Factors Difficult Conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in Item 1A of this report. Credit Arrangements We maintain a $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which we refer to as our bank debt or our bank credit facility. The bank credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets and matures on October 25, 2012. Availability under the bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base set by the lenders semi annually with an option to set more often in certain circumstances. The borrowing base is dependent on a number of factors, primarily the lenders assessment of future cash flows. Redeterminations of the borrowing base require approval of 2/3rds of the lenders; increases require unanimous approval. At February 19, 2009, the bank credit facility had a $1.5 billion borrowing base and a $1.25 billion facility amount. Remaining credit availability is $442.0 million on February 19, 2009. Our bank group is comprised of twenty six commercial banks, with no one bank holding more than 5.0% of the bank credit facility. We believe our large number of banks and relatively low commitment hold levels allows for sufficient lending capacity should we elect to increase our $1.25 billion commitment up to the $1.5 billion borrowing base and also allows for flexibility should there be additional consolidation within the banking sector. In December 2008, we elected to utilize the expansion option under the bank credit facility and increased our credit facility commitment by $250.0 million, which made the current commitment $1.25 billion. Our bank debt and our subordinated notes impose limitations on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments (as defined under the debt agreements for our bank debt and our subordinated notes). The debt agreements also contain customary covenants relating to debt incurrence, working capital, dividends and financial ratios. We were in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2008. Cash Flow Cash flows from operations are primarily affected by production volumes and commodity prices, net of the effects of settlements of our derivatives. Our cash flows from operations also are impacted by changes in working capital. We sell substantially all of our oil and gas production at the wellhead under floating market contracts. However, we generally hedge a substantial, but varying portion of our anticipated future oil and gas production for the next 12 to 24 months. Any payments due to counterparties under our derivative contracts should ultimately be funded by prices received from the sale of our production. Production receipts, however, often lag payments to the counterparties. Any interim cash needs are funded by borrowing under the credit facility. As of December 31, 2008, we have entered into hedging agreements covering 97.8 Bcfe for 2009. Net cash provided from continuing operations in 2008 was $824.8 million, compared to $632.1 million in 2007 and $441.5 million in 2006. The increase in cash provided by operating activities from 2007 to 2008 and from 2006 to 2007 was primarily due to increased production from acquisitions and development activity and higher price realizations. Cash provided from operations is largely dependent upon prices received for oil and gas production. As of February 19, 2009, we have hedged approximately 77% of our 2009 projected production. Net cash provided from continuing operations is also affected by working capital changes or the timing of cash receipts and disbursements. Changes in working capital (as reflected in the consolidated statement of cash flows) for 2008 was a positive $20.2 million compared to a negative $13.0 million in 2007 and a positive $20.3 million in 2006. Net cash used in investing activities in 2008 was $1.7 billion compared to $1.0 billion in 2007 and $911.7 million in 2006. In 2008, we spent $881.9 million on additions to oil and gas properties, $834.8 million on acquisitions and $44.2 million on equity method investments and other assets. Acquisitions in 2008 include the purchase of producing and non producing Barnett Shale properties and Marcellus Shale leasehold. In 2007, we spent $782.4 million in additions to oil and gas properties, $336.5 million on acquisitions and $94.7 million on equity method investments. Acquisitions in 2007 included acquiring additional interests in the Nora field of Virginia where we entered into a joint development plan with Equitable Resources, Inc. Also in 2007, we recognized proceeds of $234.3 million from the sale of assets. The 2006 period included $487.2 million in additions to oil and gas properties and $360.1 million of acquisitions. Acquisitions in 2006 include the purchase of Stroud Energy, Inc., which had operations in the Barnett Shale. 34 Table of Contents Net cash provided from financing activities in 2008 was $903.7 million, compared to $379.9 million in 2007 and $429.4 million in 2006. Historically, sources of financing have been primarily bank borrowings and capital raised through equity and debt offerings. During 2008, we received proceeds of $250.0 million from the issuance of our 7.25% senior subordinated notes and proceeds of $282.2 million from a common stock offering. During 2007, we received proceeds of $250.0 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 and proceeds of $280.4 million from a common stock offering. During 2006, we received proceeds of $249.5 million from the issuance of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016. In 2008, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $10.0 million of our common stock. During 2008, we expended $3.2 million to acquire 78,400 shares. Capital Requirements Our primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, repayment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and payment of dividends. During 2008, $930.1 million of capital was expended on drilling projects. Also in 2008, $845.5 million was expended on acquisitions of additional interests in producing properties and unproved acreage. The capital program, excluding acquisitions, was funded by net cash flow from operations, proceeds from asset sales, debt and equity offerings and borrowings under our bank credit facility. Our capital expenditure budget for 2009 is currently set at $700.0 million, excluding acquisitions. Development and exploration activities are highly discretionary, and, for the foreseeable future, we expect such activities to be maintained at levels equal to internal cash flow. To the extent capital requirements exceed internal cash flow and proceeds from asset sales, debt or equity may be issued to fund these requirements. We currently believe we have sufficient liquidity and cash flow to meet our obligations for the next twelve months; however, a continued drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production or reserves could adversely affect our ability to fund capital expenditures and meet our financial obligations. We monitor our capital expenditures on a regular basis, adjusting the amount up or down and also between our operating regions, depending on commodity prices, cash flow and projected returns. Also, our obligations may change due to acquisitions, divestitures and continued growth. We may issue additional shares of stock, subordinated notes or other debt securities to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, extend maturities or to repay debt. Cash Dividend Payments The amount of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and primarily depends on earnings and capital expenditures. In 2008, we paid $24.6 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in each quarter). In 2007, we paid $19.1 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.03 per share in the third, second and first quarters). In 2006, we paid $12.2 million in dividends to our common stockholders ($0.03 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.02 per share in the third, second and first quarters). Cash Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations include long term debt, operating leases, drilling commitments, derivative obligations, other liabilities and transportation commitments. As of December 31, 2008, we do not have any capital leases nor have we entered into any material long term contracts for equipment. As of December 31, 2008, we do not have any significant off balance sheet debt or other such unrecorded obligations and we have not guaranteed the debt of any unrelated party. The table below provides estimates of the timing of future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place at December 31, 2008. In addition to the contractual obligations listed on the table below, our balance sheet at December 31, 2008 reflects accrued interest payable on our bank debt of $779,000 which is payable in first quarter 2009. We expect to make interest payments of $9.6 million per year on our 6.375% senior subordinated notes, $14.8 million per year on our 7.375% senior subordinated notes, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 and $18.1 million per year on our 7.25% senior subordinated notes. 35 Table of Contents The following summarizes our contractual financial obligations at December 31, 2008 and their future maturities. We expect to fund these contractual obligations with cash generated from operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility and proceeds from asset sales. Payment due by period 2010 and 2012 and 2009 2011 2013 Thereafter Total (in thousands) Bank debt due 2012 $ $ $ 693,000 (a) $ $ 693,000 7.375% senior subordinated notes due 2013 200,000 200,000 6.375% senior subordinated notes due 2015 150,000 150,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016 250,000 250,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 250,000 250,000 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2018 250,000 250,000 Other debt 105 105 Operating leases 10,284 19,479 9,585 9,257 48,605 Drilling rig commitments 26,850 116,800 31,685 175,335 Transportation commitments 17,369 32,995 25,861 69,145 145,370 Seismic agreements 900 900 1,800 Derivative obligations (b) 10 10 Asset retirement obligation liability (c) 2,055 10,197 1,233 69,972 83,457 Total contractual obligations (d) $ 57,468 $ 180,371 $ 961,469 $ 1,048,374 $ 2,247,682 (a) Due at termination date of our bank credit facility. We expect to renew our bank credit facility, but there is no assurance that can be accomplished. Interest paid on our bank credit facility would be approximately $20.1 million each year assuming no change in the interest rate or outstanding balance. (b) Derivative obligations represent net open derivative contracts valued as of December 31, 2008. While such payments will be funded by higher prices received from the sale of our production, production receipts may be received after our payments to counterparties, which can result in borrowings under our bank credit facility. (c) The ultimate settlement and timing cannot be precisely determined in advance. (d) This table excludes the liability for the deferred compensation plans since these obligations will be funded with existing plan assets. In addition to the amounts included in the above table, we have contracted with a pipeline company through 2017 to deliver natural gas production volumes in Appalachia from certain Marcellus Shale wells. The agreement calls for incremental increases over the initial 40,000 Mmbtu per day. These increases, which are contingent on certain pipeline modifications, are for 30,000 Mmbtu per day in March 2009, 30,000 Mmbtu per day in October 2009, 30,000 Mmbtu per day March 2010 and an additional 20,000 Mmbtu per day for July 2010 for a total increase of 110,000 Mmbtu per day. Delivery Commitments Under a sales agreement with Enterprise Products Operating, LLC, we have an obligation to deliver 30,000 Mmbtu per day of volume at various delivery points within the Barnett Shale basin. The contract, which began in 2008, extends for five years ending March 2013. As of December 31, 2008, remaining volumes to be delivered under this commitment are approximately 46.5 bcf. Hedging Oil and Gas Prices We use commodity based derivative contracts to manage exposure to commodity price fluctuations. We do not enter into these arrangements for speculative or trading purposes. These contracts consist of collars and fixed price swaps. We do not utilize complex derivatives such as swaptions, knockouts or extendable swaps. While there is a risk that the financial benefit of rising oil and gas prices may not be captured, we believe the benefits of stable and predictable cash flow are more important. Among these benefits are a more efficient utilization of existing personnel and planning for future staff additions, the flexibility to enter into long term projects requiring substantial committed capital, smoother and more efficient execution of our ongoing development drilling and production enhancement programs, more consistent returns on invested capital, and better access to bank and other credit markets. At December 31, 2008, swaps were in place covering 25.6 Bcf of gas at prices averaging $8.38 per mcf. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas at weighted average floor and cap prices of $8.28 to $9.27 and 2.9 million barrels of oil at weighted average floor and cap prices of $64.01 to $76.00. Their fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be 36 Table of Contents realized or payable on termination, based on a comparison of the contract price and a reference price, generally NYMEX, approximated a pretax gain of $214.2 million at December 31, 2008. The contracts expire monthly through December 2009. At December 31, 2008, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Average Hedge Price Natural Gas 2009 Swaps 70,000 Mmbtu/day $8.38 2009 Collars 150,000 Mmbtu/day $8.28 $9.27 Crude Oil 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $64.01 $76.00 In addition to the swaps and collars above, we have entered into basis swap agreements. The price we receive for our production can be less than NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net unrealized pre tax gain of $12.4 million at December 31, 2008. Interest Rates At December 31, 2008, we had $1.8 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $1.1 billion bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $693.0 million bears interest at floating rates, which averaged 2.9% at year end 2008. The 30 day LIBOR rate on December 31, 2008 was 0.4%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 would cost us approximately $6.9 million in additional annual interest expense. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently utilize any off balance sheet arrangements with unconsolidated entities to enhance our liquidity or capital resource position, or for any other purpose. However, as is customary in the oil and gas industry, we have various contractual work commitments as described above under cash contractual obligations. Inflation and Changes in Prices Our revenues, the value of our assets and our ability to obtain bank loans or additional capital on attractive terms have been and will continue to be affected by changes in oil and gas prices and the costs to produce our reserves. Oil and gas prices are subject to significant fluctuations that are beyond our ability to control or predict. In a trend that began in the fourth quarter of 2008 and has continued into 2009, the industry has experienced deteriorating basis differentials in the Mid Continent and West Texas areas primarily caused by an over supply of gas in these regions. Although certain of our costs and expenses are affected by general inflation, inflation does not normally have a significant effect on our business. In a trend that began in 2004 and accelerated through the middle of 2008, commodity prices for oil and gas increased significantly. The higher prices have led to increased activity in the industry and, consequently, rising costs. These cost trends have put pressure not only on our operating costs but also on our capital costs. Due to the decline in commodity prices in the last half of 2008, we expect these costs to moderate in 2009. 37 Table of Contents The following table indicates the average oil and gas prices received over the last five years and quarterly for 2008, 2007 and 2006. Average price calculations exclude all derivative settlements whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Oil is converted to natural gas equivalent at the rate of one barrel equals six mcfe. Average Sales Prices (Wellhead) Average NYMEX Prices (a) Crude Natural Equivalent Crude Natural Oil Gas Mcf Oil Gas (Per bbl) (Per mcf) (Per mcfe) (Per bbl) (Per mcf) Annual 2008 $ 96.77 $ 8.07 $ 9.14 $ 100.47 $ 8.91 2007 67.47 6.54 7.37 72.34 6.92 2006 62.36 6.59 7.25 66.22 7.26 2005 53.30 8.00 7.99 56.56 8.55 2004 39.20 5.80 5.79 41.41 6.09 Quarterly 2008 First $ 94.65 $ 7.85 $ 8.96 $ 97.90 $ 8.07 Second 120.27 10.09 11.48 123.98 10.80 Third 113.91 9.72 10.90 117.83 10.08 Fourth 55.09 4.86 5.43 58.79 6.82 2007 First $ 56.01 $ 6.41 $ 6.88 $ 58.27 $ 6.96 Second 62.20 6.95 7.57 65.03 7.56 Third 70.51 5.97 7.01 75.38 6.13 Fourth 82.12 6.80 7.94 90.68 7.03 2006 First $ 59.74 $ 8.33 $ 8.41 $ 63.48 $ 9.07 Second 65.36 6.28 7.17 70.70 6.82 Third 64.53 6.12 7.00 70.48 6.53 Fourth 59.80 5.91 6.58 60.21 6.62 (a) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. Debt Ratings We receive debt credit ratings from Standard Poors Ratings Group, Inc. (SP) and Moodys Investor Services, Inc. (Moodys), which are subject to regular reviews. SPs rating for us is BB with a stable outlook. Moodys rating for us is Ba2 with a stable outlook. We believe that SP and Moodys consider many factors in determining our ratings including: production growth opportunities, liquidity, debt levels, asset, and proved reserve mix. We also believe that the rating agencies take into consideration our size, corporate structure, the complexity of our capital structure and organization, and history of how we have chosen to finance our growth. We believe that our simple balance sheet, singular line of business, and practice of funding our growth with a balanced mix of long term debt and common equity positively impact our ratings. In addition to qualitative and quantitative factors unique to Range, we believe that the rating agencies consider various macro economic factors such as the projected future price of oil and gas, trends in industry service costs, and global supply and demand for energy. Based upon the factors influencing our credit ratings which are within our control, we are not currently aware of any reason why our credit rating would change materially from the present ratings. A reduction in our debt ratings could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing or the interest rate, fees and other terms associated with such additional financing. 38 Table of Contents Managements Discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used. Certain accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (a) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the level of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to changes; and (b) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Oil and Gas Properties We use the successful efforts method to account for exploration and development expenditures. Unsuccessful exploration drilling costs are expensed and can have a significant effect on reported operating results. Successful exploration drilling costs and all development costs are capitalized and systematically charged to expense using the units of production method based on proved developed oil and gas reserves as estimated by our engineers and reviewed by independent engineers. Costs incurred for exploratory wells that find reserves that cannot yet be classified as proved are capitalized on our balance sheet if (a) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and (b) we are making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Proven property leasehold costs are amortized to expense using the units of production method based on total proved reserves. Properties are assessed for impairment as circumstances warrant (at least annually) and impairments to value are charged to expense. The successful efforts method inherently relies upon the estimation of proved reserves, which includes proved developed and proved undeveloped volumes. Proved reserves are defined by the SEC as those volumes of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed reserves are volumes expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Although our engineers are knowledgeable of and follow the guidelines for reserves established by the SEC, the estimation of reserves requires engineers to make a significant number of assumptions based on professional judgment. Reserve estimates are updated at least annually and consider recent production levels and other technical information. Estimated reserves are often subject to future revisions, which could be substantial, based on the availability of additional information, including: reservoir performance, new geological and geophysical data, additional drilling, technological advancements, price and cost changes and other economic factors. Changes in oil and gas prices can lead to a decision to start up or shut in production, which can lead to revisions to reserve quantities. Reserve revisions in turn cause adjustments in the depletion rates used by us. We cannot predict what reserve revisions may be required in future periods. Reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering who reports directly to our President. To further ensure the reliability of our reserve estimates, we engage independent petroleum consultants to review our estimates of proved reserves. Independent petroleum consultants reviewed 87% of our reserves in 2008 compared to 86% in 2007 and 2006. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. The reserves included in this report are those reserves estimated by our employees. Depletion rates are determined based on reserve quantity estimates and the capitalized costs of producing properties. As the estimated reserves are adjusted, the depletion expense for a property will change, assuming no change in production volumes or the capitalized costs. While total depletion expense for the life of a property is limited to the propertys total cost, proved reserve revisions result in a change in timing when depletion expense is recognized. Downward revisions of proved reserves result in an acceleration of depletion expense, while upward revisions tend to lower the rate of depletion expense 39 Table of Contents recognition. Based on proved reserves at December 31, 2008, we estimate that a 1% change in proved reserves would increase or decrease 2009 depletion expense by approximately $3.0 million (assuming a 10% production increase). Estimated reserves are used as the basis for calculating the expected future cash flows from a property, which are used to determine whether that property may be impaired. Reserves are also used to estimate the supplemental disclosure of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil and gas producing activities and reserve quantities in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. Changes in the estimated reserves are considered in estimates for accounting purposes and are reflected on a prospective basis. We monitor our long lived assets recorded in property, plant and equipment in our consolidated balance sheet to ensure they are fairly presented. We must evaluate our properties for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset could exceed its fair value. A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these evaluations since the results are based on estimated future events. Such events include a projection of future oil and gas sales prices, an estimate of the ultimate amount of recoverable oil and gas reserves that will be produced from a field, the timing of future production, future production costs, future abandonment costs, and future inflation. The need to test a property for impairment can be based on several factors, including a significant reduction in sales prices for oil and or gas, unfavorable adjustments to reserves, physical damage to production equipment and facilities, a change in costs, or other changes to contracts or environmental regulations. All of these factors must be considered when testing a propertys carrying value for impairment. The review is done by determining if the historical cost of proved properties less the applicable accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization is less than the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows. The expected future net cash flows are estimated based on our plans to produce and develop proved reserves. Expected future net cash inflow from the sale of production of reserves is calculated based on estimated future prices and estimated operating and development costs. We estimate prices based upon market related information including published futures prices. The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions surrounding future levels of prices and costs, field decline rates, market demand and supply, the economic and regulatory climates. When the carrying value exceeds the sum of future net cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the estimated fair market value (as determined by discounted future net cash flows) and the carrying value of the asset. We cannot predict whether impairment charges may be required in the future. Our historical impairment of producing properties has been $74.9 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2004, $31.1 million in 2001, $29.9 million in 1999 and $214.7 million in 1998. We believe that a sensitivity analysis regarding the effect of changes in assumptions on estimated impairment is impractical to provide because of the number of assumptions and variables involved which have interdependent effects on the potential outcome. We are required to develop estimates of fair value to allocate purchase prices paid to acquire businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price paid to acquire a business is allocated to its assets and liabilities based on the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. We use all available information to make these fair value determinations. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for information on these acquisitions. We adhere to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies, for recognizing any impairment of capitalized costs to unproved properties. The greatest portion of these costs generally relate to the acquisition of leaseholds. The costs are capitalized and periodically evaluated (at least quarterly) as to recoverability, based on changes brought about by economic factors and potential shifts in business strategy employed by management. We consider a combination of time, geologic and engineering factors to evaluate the need for impairment of these costs. Unproved properties had a net book value of $766.2 million in 2008 compared to $271.4 million in 2007 and $226.3 million in 2006. We have recorded abandonment and impairment expense related to unproved properties of $47.9 million in 2008 compared to $6.8 million in 2007 and $257,000 in 2006. Oil and Gas Derivatives We enter into derivative contracts to mitigate our exposure to commodity price risk associated with future oil and gas production. These contracts have historically consisted of options, in the form of collars, and fixed price swaps. Every derivative instrument is required to be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or a liability measured at its fair value. We record these values on our balance sheet as either Unrealized derivative gains or Unrealized derivative losses. If a derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of effective portion are recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the balance sheet, which is later transferred to earnings when the hedged transaction occurs. Realized gains or losses of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are included in oil and gas sales in our statement of operations. Oil and gas sales include $63.6 million of losses in 2008 compared to gains of $4.2 million in 2007 and losses of $93.2 million in 2006. 40 Table of Contents Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges but are, to a degree, an economic offset of our commodity price exposure. These contracts are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. Under this method, all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts are recognized in our consolidated statement of operations under the caption Derivative fair value income (loss). As of December 31, 2008, derivatives for 40.1 Bcfe no longer qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting. We have also entered into basis swap agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting and are also marked to market. The price we receive for our gas production can be less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location, or basis, relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreement that effectively fix our basis adjustments for a portion of our production. On January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157 for those financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value in our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. It does not require us to make any new fair value measurements, but rather establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their value. Hierarchical levels defined by SFAS No. 157 and directly related to the amount of subjectivity associated with the inputs to fair valuation of these assets and liabilities are as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date. Level 2 Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1, which are directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date. Level 2 includes those financial instruments that are valued using models or other valuation methodologies. These models are primarily industry standard models that consider assumptions, including quoted forward prices for commodities, time value, volatility factors and current market and contractual prices for underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economics measures. Our derivatives, which consist primarily of commodity swaps and collars, are valued using commodity market data, which is derived by combining raw inputs and quantitative models and processes to generate forward curves. Where observable inputs are available, directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, the instrument is categorized in Level 2. Level 3 Pricing inputs include significant inputs that are generally less observable from objective sources. These inputs may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in managements best estimate of fair value. At December 31, 2008, we have no Level 3 measurements. For Range, the primary impact from the adoption of SFAS No. 157 at January 1, 2008 related to the fair value measurement of our marketable securities held in our deferred compensation plan and the fair value measurement of our derivative instruments. FSP FAS 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157, deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for one year for certain non financial asset and non financial liabilities, which for us includes the initial measurement of asset retirement obligations. We will adopt SFAS 157 for non financial assets and liabilities effective January 1, 2009 and it is not expected to have a significant impact on our reported financial position or earnings. We use a market approach for our value measurements. The assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our trading securities in Level 1 are exchange traded and measured at fair value with a market approach using December 31, 2008 market values. Our commodity derivatives in Level 2 are measured using third party pricing services which have been corroborated with data from active markets or broker quotes. Our exposure is diversified among major investment grade financial institutions and we have master netting agreements with the majority of our counterparties that provide for offsetting payables against receivables from separate derivative contracts. Our derivative counterparties include twelve financial institutions, ten of which are secured lenders in our bank credit facility. We have two counterparties that are not part of our bank group and three counterparties in our bank group with no master netting agreements. Mitsui Co. and J. Aron Company are the two counterparties not in our bank group. At December 31, 2008, our net derivative receivable includes a receivable from J. Aron Company of $987,000 and a receivable from Mitsui Co. of $18.0 million. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, counterparty credit risk is considered when determining the fair value of our derivative contracts. While our counterparties are major investment grade financial institutions, the fair value of our derivative contracts have been adjusted to account for the risk of non performance by the counterparty, which was immaterial. 41 Table of Contents Asset Retirement Obligations We have significant obligations to remove tangible equipment and restore land at the end of oil and gas production operations. Removal and restoration obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells. Estimating the future asset removal costs is difficult and requires us to make estimates and judgments because most of the removal obligations are many years in the future and contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what constitutes removal. Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are regulatory, political, environmental, safety and public relations considerations. Inherent in the fair value calculation are numerous assumptions and judgments including the ultimate retirement costs, inflation factors, credit adjusted discount rates, timing of retirement, and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and political environments. To the extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present value of the existing asset retirement obligation, (ARO), a corresponding adjustment is made to the oil and gas property balance. For example, as we analyze actual plugging and abandonment information, we may revise our estimate of current costs, the assumed annual inflation of the costs and or the assumed productive lives of our wells. During 2008, we increased our existing estimated asset retirement obligation by $2.4 million or approximately 3% of the asset retirement obligation at December 31, 2007. In addition, increases in the discounted ARO liability resulting from the passage of time are reflected as accretion expense, a component of depletion, depreciation and amortization in our consolidated statement of operations. Because of the subjectivity of assumptions and the relatively long lives of most of our wells, the costs to ultimately retire our wells may vary significantly from prior estimates. We do not provide for a market risk premium because a reliable estimate cannot be determined. Deferred Taxes We are subject to income and other taxes in all areas in which we operate. When recording income tax expense, certain estimates are required because income tax returns are generally filed many months after the close of a calendar year, tax returns are subject to audit, which can take years to complete, and future events often impact the timing of when income tax expenses and benefits are recognized. We have deferred tax assets relating to tax operating loss carryforwards and other deductible differences. We routinely evaluate deferred tax assets to determine the likelihood of realization. A valuation allowance is recognized on deferred tax assets when we believe that certain of these assets are not likely to be realized. In determining deferred tax liabilities, accounting rules require accumulated other comprehensive income to be considered, even though such income or loss has not yet been earned. At year end 2008, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $816.4 million, with $44.7 million of deferred tax liabilities related to unrealized hedging gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income. At year end 2007, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $563.9 million, with $16.3 million of deferred tax assets related to unrealized hedging losses included in OCI. We may be challenged by taxing authorities over the amount and or timing of recognition of revenues and deductions in our various income tax returns. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for all taxes, gains or losses could occur in the future due to changes in estimates or resolution of outstanding tax matters. Contingent Liabilities A provision for legal, environmental and other contingent matters is charged to expense when the loss is probable and the cost or range of cost can be reasonably estimated. Judgment is often required to determine when expenses should be recorded for legal, environmental and contingent matters. In addition, we often must estimate the amount of such losses. In many cases, our judgment is based on the input of our legal advisors and on the interpretation of laws and regulations, which can be interpreted differently by regulators and or the courts. We monitor known and potential legal, environmental and other contingent matters and make our best estimate of when to record losses for these matters based on available information. Although we continue to monitor all contingencies closely, particularly our outstanding litigation, we currently have no material accruals for contingent liabilities. Revenue Recognition Oil, gas and natural gas liquids are recognized when the products are sold and delivery to the purchaser has occurred. We use the sales method to account for gas imbalances, recognizing revenue based on gas delivered rather than our working interest share of gas produced. We recognize the cost of revenues, such as transportation and compression expense, as a reduction of revenue. 42 Table of Contents Stock based Compensation We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. We previously accounted for stock awards under the recognition and measurement principles of ABB No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations. Prior to January 1, 2006 stock based employee compensation for restricted stock was reflected in our statement of operations, but no compensation expense was recognized for stock options granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method. Under the modified prospective application method, we have applied the standards to awards made after adoption. Additionally, compensation cost for the unvested portion of stock awards outstanding as of January 1, 2006 has been recognized as compensation expense as the requisite service is rendered after January 1, 2006. We recognize stock based compensation on a straight line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. The expense we recognize is net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate our forfeiture rate based on prior experience and adjust it as circumstances warrant. The Compensation Committee grants restricted stock to certain employees and to non employee directors of the Board of Directors as part of their compensation. Compensation expense is recognized over the balance of the vesting period, which is typically three years for employee grants and immediate vesting for non employee directors. All restricted shares that are granted are placed in the deferred compensation plan. All vested restricted stock held in our deferred compensation plan is marked to market each reporting period based on the market value of our stock. This mark to market is presented in the caption deferred compensation plan in our statement of operations. See additional information in Note 12. The fair value of stock options and stock settled SARs is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. The model employs various assumptions, based on managements best estimates at the time of the grant, which impact the fair value calculated and ultimately, the expense that is recognized over the life of the award. The fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted In June 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position No. EITF 03 6 1 Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions are Participating Securities, (FSP EITF 03 6 1) which provides that unvested share based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share under the two class method. FSP EITF 03 6 1 is effective for us January 1, 2009 and all prior period EPS data (including any amounts related to interim periods, summaries of earnings and selected financial data) will be adjusted retroactively to conform to its provisions. Early application of FSP EITF 03 6 1 is not permitted. Although restricted stock awards meet this definition, we do not expect the application of FSP 03 6 1 to have a significant impact on our reported earnings per share. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosure about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133 with the intent to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of: (i) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; (ii) how derivative instruments and related hedge items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations; and (iii) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for us January 1, 2009 and will only impact future disclosure about our derivative instruments and hedging activities. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) replaces SFAS No. 141. The statement retains the purchase method of accounting for acquisitions, but requires a number of changes, including changes in the way assets and liabilities are recognized in the purchase accounting. It changes the recognition of assets acquired and liabilities assumed arising from contingencies, requires the capitalization of in process research and development at fair value, and requires the expensing of acquisition related costs as incurred. The statement will apply prospectively to business combinations occurring in our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2009. The effect of adopting SFAS No. 141(R) is not expected to have an effect on our reported financial position or earnings. ITEM 7A. QUANTITIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil and gas prices and interest rates. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, 43 Table of Contents but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposure. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. All accounts are US dollar denominated. Financial Market Risk The debt and equity markets have recently exhibited adverse conditions. The unprecedented volatility and upheaval in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing debt instruments due to increased spreads over relevant interest rate benchmarks and may affect our ability to access those markets. At this point, we do not believe our liquidity has been materially affected by the recent events in the global markets and we do not expect our liquidity to be materially impacted in the near future. We will continue to monitor our liquidity and the capital markets. Additionally, we will continue to monitor events and circumstances surrounding each of our twenty six lenders in the bank credit facility. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors. Market Risk Our major market risk is exposure to oil and gas prices. Realized prices are primarily driven by worldwide prices for oil and spot market prices for North American gas production. Oil and gas prices have been volatile and unpredictable for many years. Commodity Price Risk We periodically enter into derivative arrangements with respect to our oil and gas production. These arrangements are intended to reduce the impact of oil and gas price fluctuations. Certain of our derivatives are swaps where we receive a fixed price for our production and pay market prices to the counterparty. Our derivatives program also includes collars, which establish a minimum floor price and a predetermined ceiling price. As of December 31, 2008, we had oil and gas swaps in place covering 25.6 Bcf of gas. We also had collars covering 54.8 Bcf of gas and 2.9 million barrels of oil. These contracts expire monthly through December 2009. The fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized upon immediate liquidation as of December 31, 2008, approximated a net unrealized pre tax gain of $214.2 million. At December 31, 2008, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Average Fair Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Hedge Price Market Value (in thousands) Natural Gas 2009 Swaps 70,000 Mmbtu/day $8.38 $ 57,280 2009 Collars 150,000 Mmbtu/day $8.28 $9.27 $ 121,781 Crude Oil 2009 Collars 8,000 bbl/day $64.01 $76.00 $ 35,166 Other Commodity Risk We are impacted by basis risk, caused by factors that affect the relationship between commodity futures prices reflected in derivative commodity instruments and the cash market price of the underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices experienced in local markets. If commodity price changes in one region are not reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased basis risk. In addition to the collars and swaps above, we have entered into basis swap agreements. The price we receive for our gas production can be more or less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net realized pre tax gain of $12.4 million at December 31, 2008. 44 Table of Contents The following table shows the fair value of our swaps and collars and the hypothetical change in fair value that would result from a 10% change in commodities prices at December 31, 2008. The hypothetical change in fair value would be a gain or loss depending on whether prices increase or decrease (in thousands): Hypothetical Change in Fair Value Fair Value Swaps $ 57,280 $ 15,000 Collars $ 156,947 $ 45,000 Our commodity based contracts expose us to the credit risk of non performance by the counterparty to the contracts. Our exposure is diversified among major investment grade financial institutions and we have master netting agreements with the majority of our counterparties that provide for offsetting payables against receivables from separate derivative contracts. Our derivative counterparties include twelve financial institutions, ten of which are secured lenders in our bank credit facility. We have two counterparties that are not part of our bank group and three counterparties in our bank group with no master netting agreement. Mitsui Co. and J. Aron Company are the two counterparties not in our bank group. At December 31, 2008, our net derivative receivable includes a receivable from J. Aron Company of $987,000 and a receivable from Mitsui Co. of $18.0 million. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, counterparty credit risk is considered when determining the fair value of our derivative contracts. While counterparties are major investment grade financial institutions, the fair value of our derivative contracts have been adjusted to account for the risk of non performance by counterparty, which was immaterial. Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to interest rate risk on our bank debt. We attempt to balance variable rate debt, fixed rate debt and debt maturities to manage interest costs, interest rate volatility and financing risk. This is accomplished through a mix of fixed rate senior subordinated debt and variable rate bank debt. At December 31, 2008, we had $1.8 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $1.1 billion bears interest at a fixed rate averaging 7.3%. Bank debt totaling $693.0 million bears interest at floating rates, which was 2.9% on that date. On December 31, 2008, the 30 day LIBOR rate was 0.4%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 would cost us approximately $6.9 million in additional annual interest expense. The fair value of our subordinated debt is based on year end quoted market prices. The following table presents information on these fair values (in thousands): Carrying Fair Value Value Fixed rate debt: Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 $ 197,968 $ 181,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 150,000 121,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 6.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 249,595 212,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 250,000 209,375 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 250,000 206,250 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.25%) $ 1,097,563 $ 931,125 45 Table of Contents 
 
