Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Production Gas (Mmcf) 130,649 114,323 89,595 Crude oil (Mbbls) 2,557 3,084 3,360 Natural gas liquids (Mbbls) 2,187 1,386 1,115 Total (Mmcfe) (a) 159,112 141,145 116,441 Average sales prices (wellhead) Gas (per mcf) $ 3.32 $ 8.07 $ 6.54 Crude oil (per bbl) 54.98 96.77 67.47 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 28.99 49.43 41.40 Total (per mcfe) (a) 4.00 9.14 7.37 Average realized prices (including derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting): Gas (per mcf) $ 4.77 $ 8.15 $ 6.85 Crude oil (per bbl) 59.75 73.38 60.40 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 28.99 49.43 41.40 Total (per mcfe) (a) 5.28 8.69 7.41 Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements) Gas (per mcf) $ 6.13 $ 8.15 $ 7.66 Crude oil (per bbl) 62.58 68.20 60.16 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 28.99 49.43 41.40 Total (per mcfe) (a) 6.44 8.58 8.02 Production costs Lease operating (per mcfe) $ 0.78 $ 0.92 $ 0.84 Workovers (per mcfe) 0.04 0.07 0.06 Stock based compensation (per mcfe) 0.02 0.02 0.02 Total (per mcfe) $ 0.84 $ 1.01 $ 0.92 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. 4 Table of Contents Employees As of January 1, 2010, we had 787 full time employees, 373 of whom were field personnel. All full time employees are eligible to receive equity awards approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. No employees are covered by a labor union or other collective bargaining arrangement. We believe that the relationship with our employees is excellent. We regularly use independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services, particularly in the areas of drilling, completion, field, on site production services and certain accounting functions. Available Information Our internet website is available under the name http://www.rangeresources.com. We make available, free of charge, on our website, the annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after providing such reports to the SEC. In addition, other information such as company presentations are also available on our website. Also, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Dividend Committee, and the Governance and Nominating Committee, and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on our website and in print to any stockholder who provides a written request to the Corporate Secretary at 100 Throckmorton Street, Suite 1200, Fort Worth, Texas 76102. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all directors, officers and employees, including the chief executive officer and senior financial officer. We file annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. Also, the SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Range, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any document we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this report or any other filing that we make with the SEC. Competition We encounter substantial competition in developing and acquiring oil and gas properties, securing and retaining personnel, conducting drilling and field operations and marketing production. Competitors in exploration, development, acquisitions and production include the major oil companies as well as numerous independent oil and gas companies, individual proprietors and others. Although our sizable acreage position and core area concentration provide some competitive advantages, many competitors have financial and other resources substantially exceeding ours. Therefore, competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources allow. Our ability to replace and expand our reserve base depends on our ability to attract and retain quality personnel and identify and acquire suitable producing properties and prospects for future drilling. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Marketing and Customers We market the majority of our oil and gas production from the properties we operate for both our interest and that of the other working interest owners and royalty owners. We sell our gas pursuant to a variety of contractual arrangements, generally month to month and one to five year contracts. Less than 10% of our production is subject to contracts longer than five years. Pricing on the month to month and short term contracts is based largely on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) pricing, with fixed or floating basis. For one to five year contracts, our gas is sold on NYMEX pricing, published regional index pricing or percentage of proceeds sales based on local indices. We sell less than 400 mcf per day under long term fixed price contracts. Many contracts contain provisions for periodic price adjustment, redetermination and other terms customary in the industry. Our natural gas is sold to utilities, marketing companies and industrial users. Our oil is sold under contracts ranging in terms from month to month, up to as long as one year. The pricing for oil is based upon the posted prices set by major purchasers in the production area, reporting publications, or upon NYMEX pricing or fixed pricing. All oil pricing is adjusted for quality and transportation differentials. Oil and gas purchasers are selected on the basis of price, credit quality and service reliability. For a summary of purchasers of our oil and gas production that accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenue, see Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. Because alternative purchasers of oil and gas are usually readily available, we believe that the loss of any of these purchasers would not have a material adverse effect on us. We enter into hedging transactions with unaffiliated third parties for significant portions of our production to achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to short term fluctuations in oil and gas prices. For a more detailed discussion, see the information set forth in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Proximity to local markets, 5 Table of Contents availability of competitive fuels and overall supply and demand are factors affecting the prices for which our production can be sold. Market volatility due to international political developments, overall energy supply and demand, fluctuating weather conditions, economic growth rates and other factors in the United States and worldwide have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on energy prices. We incur gathering and transportation expenses to move our natural gas and crude oil from the wellhead and tanks to purchaser specified delivery points. These expenses vary based on volume, distance shipped and the fee charged by the third party transporters. In the Southwestern region, our gas and oil production is transported primarily through third party trucks, field gathering systems and transmission pipelines. Transportation capacity on these gathering systems and pipelines is occasionally constrained. In Appalachia, we own approximately 4,000 miles of gas gathering pipelines, which transport a portion of our Appalachian gas production and third party gas to transmission lines and directly to end users, and interstate pipelines. Our remaining Appalachian gas volume is transported on third party pipelines on which, in some cases, we hold long term contractual capacity. For additional information, see Risk Factors Our business depends on oil and gas transportation facilities, many of which are owned by others, in Item 1A of this report. Governmental Regulation Our operations are substantially affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations. In particular, oil and gas production and related operations are, or have been, subject to price controls, taxes and numerous other laws and regulations. All of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate producing crude oil and natural gas properties have statutory provisions regulating the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas, including provisions related to permits for the drilling of wells, bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, and the abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells which may be drilled in an area, and the unitization or pooling of crude oil and natural gas wells, as well as regulations that generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individual wells. In August 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005). Among other matters, the EPAct 2005 amends the Natural Gas Act (NGA), to make it unlawful for any entity, including otherwise non jurisdictional producers such as Range, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), in contravention of rules prescribed by the FERC. On January 20, 2006, the FERC issued rules implementing this provision. The rules make it unlawful in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit any such statement necessary to make the statements not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1,000,000 per day per violation. The new anti manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non jurisdictional sale or gathering, but does apply to activities or otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction. It therefore reflects a significant expansion of FERCs enforcement authority. Range does not anticipate it will be affected any differently than other producers of natural gas by this act. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, such laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil and gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the FERC, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. On December 26, 2007, FERC issued a final rule on the annual natural gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing (Order 704). Under Order 704, wholesale buyers and sellers of more than 2.2 million Mmbtus of physical natural gas in the previous calendar year, including natural gas gatherers and marketers, are now required to report, on May 1 of each year beginning in 2009, aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to the formation of price indices. It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. Order 704 also requires market participants to indicate whether they report prices to any index publishers, and if so, whether their reporting complies with FERCs policy statement on price reporting. 6 Table of Contents On November 20, 2008, FERC issued a final rule on the daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements (Order 720). Under Order 720, major non interstate pipelines, defined as certain non interstate pipelines delivering, on an annual basis, more than an average of 50 million Mmbtus of gas over the previous three calendar years, are required to post daily certain information regarding the pipelines capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has a design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. Requests for clarification and rehearing of Order 720 have been filed at FERC and a decision on those requests is pending. Environmental and Occupational Matters Our operations are subject to numerous stringent federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection, some of which carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, production and transporting through pipelines, govern the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, limit or prohibit drilling activities in certain areas and on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier and other protected areas, require some form of remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen impoundments and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations or failure to comply with regulatory filings. In addition, these laws and regulations may restrict the rate of production. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (CERCLA), also known as the Superfund law, and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons may include owners or operators of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, all of these persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties, pursuant to environmental statutes, common law or both, to file claims for personal injury and property damages allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants into the environment. Although petroleum, including crude oil and natural gas, is not a hazardous substance under CERCLA, at least two courts have ruled that certain wastes associated with the production of crude oil may be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA and that releases of such wastes may therefore give rise to liability under CERCLA. While we generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances, we have not received notification that we may be potentially responsible for cleanup costs under CERCLA or comparable state laws. Other state laws regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes, and new state and federal legislative initiatives that could have a significant impact on us may periodically be proposed and enacted. We also may incur liability under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended (RCRA), which imposes requirements related to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. While there is an exclusion from the definition of hazardous wastes for drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy, these wastes may be regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or state agencies as non hazardous solid waste. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils, can be regulated as hazardous wastes. Although the costs of managing wastes classified as hazardous waste may be significant, we do not expect to experience more burdensome costs than similarly situated companies. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other locations where such materials have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes was not under our control. These properties and the materials disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state laws and regulations. Under such laws and regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), and comparable state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other oil and gas wastes, into federal and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or the state. These laws and any implementing regulations provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for any unauthorized discharges of oil and other substances in reportable quantities and may impose substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and 7 Table of Contents maintain approvals or permits for the discharge of wastewater or storm water and are required to develop and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans, also referred to as SPCC plans, in connection with on site storage of greater than threshold quantities of oil. We are currently undertaking a review of our oil and gas properties to determine the need for new or updated SPCC plans and, where necessary, we will be developing or upgrading such plans, the costs of which are not expected to be substantial. The Clean Air Act, as amended, and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including compressor stations. These laws and any implementing regulations may require us to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent air permit requirements, or use specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. While we may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next few years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits addressing other air emission related issues, we do not believe that such requirements will have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended, or the OPA, contains numerous requirements relating to the prevention of and response to oil spills into waters of the United States. The OPA subjects owners of facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters. While we believe we have been in compliance with OPA, noncompliance could result in varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities. Changes in environmental laws and regulations sometimes occur, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements for any substances used or produced in our operations could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those of the oil and gas industry in general. For instance, recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, also known as the Waxman Markey Bill, which would establish an economy wide cap and trade program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including carbon dioxide and methane by 17 percent from 2005 levels by the year 2020 and 80 percent by the year 2050. The U.S. Senate is considering a number of comparable measures. One such measure, the Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act, or the Boxer Kerry Bill, has been reported out of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, but has not yet been considered by the full Senate and also includes a cap and trade system for controlling greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. Under such a system, certain sources of greenhouse gas emissions would be required to obtain greenhouse gas emission allowances corresponding to their annual emissions of greenhouse gases. The ultimate outcome of these bills remains uncertain, and such bills would have to undergo reconciliation before being adopted as law. In addition, at least 20 states have already taken legal measures to control emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. In California, for example, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 requires the California Air Resources Board to adopt regulations by 2012 that will achieve an overall reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all sources in California of 25% by 2020. On April 2, 2007, the United States Supreme Court held that, if EPA found that greenhouse gas concentrations endanger public health and welfare, it was obligated to regulate their emissions under the Clean Air Act. On December 15, 2009, EPA issued Endangerment and Cause of Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, in which it concluded that the atmospheric concentrations of several greenhouse gases threaten the health and welfare of future generations, and that the combined emissions of these gases from motor vehicles contribute to the atmospheric concentrations of these key greenhouse gases, and, hence, to the threat of climate change. On September 15, 2009, EPA and the Department of Transportation proposed rules that would limit emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles. The Agencies are expected to finalize those rules in March of 2010. While EPAs endangerment findings and its proposed rules on greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources do not specifically address stationary sources, it is EPAs view that once the mobile sources rules are finalized in March 2010, emissions of greenhouse gases from stationary sources will be covered under the federal Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V air permit programs, which apply to major sources of air emissions. In order to deal with the problem of an excessive number of sources being drawn into these programs, EPA has proposed to reset the 250 tons per year major source threshold to 25,000 tons per year of carbon dioxide CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalency) in the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule. 8 Table of Contents On September 23, 2009, EPA finalized a greenhouse gas reporting rule establishing a national greenhouse gas emissions collection and reporting program. The EPA rules will require covered entities to measure greenhouse gas emissions commencing in 2010 and submit reports commencing in 2011. While we do not operate stationary sources that emit significant quantities of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, we do utilize gas processing plants to process the natural gas that we produce and, thus if such processors were to incur increased costs to acquire and surrender emission allowances or otherwise to capture and dispose of greenhouse gases, it is possible that these costs, which might be significant, could be passed along to us as well as similarly situated producers. Moreover, any adoption of a program to tax the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases potentially could be imposed on us and other similarly situated producers of natural gas. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business or demand for our products. Given the possible impact of legislation and or regulation of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, we have considered and expect to continue to consider the impact of laws or regulations intended to address climate change on our operations. We do not believe our operations require reporting or monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions under existing laws and regulations; however, we do operate mobile equipment in the normal course of our business that emits carbon dioxide as well as some stationary engines that power compressors and pumping equipment. Methane is a primary constituent of natural gas and, like all oil and gas exploration and production companies, we produce significant quantities of natural gas; however, such production of natural gas, including its constituent hydrocarbon including methane, is gathered and transported in pipelines under pressure and we therefore do not emit significant quantities of methane in connection with our operations. Given our lack of significant points of carbon dioxide emissions, we have focused most of our efforts on physical environmental ground, water and air issues in our operations. We are also subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended (OSHA), and comparable state laws that regulate the protection of the health and safety of employees. In addition, OSHAs hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with the OSHA requirements. Finally, the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives are currently considering bills entitled, the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, or the FRAC Act, to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, or the SDWA, to repeal an exemption from regulation for hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process involving the injection of water, sand and small amounts of chemical additives under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil or natural gas production. Sponsors of these bills have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could result in third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business as well as delay the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. In summary, we believe we are in substantial compliance with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with environmental requirements, there is no assurance that this will continue. We did not have any material capital or other non recurring expenditures in connection with complying with environmental laws or environmental remediation matters in 2009, nor do we anticipate that such expenditures will be material in 2010. However, we regularly have expenditures to comply with environmental laws and those costs continue to increase as our operations expand. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. Risks Related to Our Business Volatility of oil and gas prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources and could hamper our ability to produce oil and gas economically Oil and gas prices are volatile, and a decline in prices adversely affects our profitability and financial condition. The oil and gas industry is typically cyclical, and prices for oil and gas have been volatile. Historically, the industry has experienced downturns characterized by oversupply and or weak demand. Long term supply and demand for oil and gas is uncertain and subject to a myriad of factors such as: the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; the price and availability of alternative fuels; weather conditions; the level of consumer demand; the price of foreign imports; worldwide economic conditions; the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities and processing facilities; the effect of worldwide energy conservation efforts; political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes. Oil and gas prices have been volatile over the past 18 months. In July 2008, the average New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) price of oil was $133.49 per barrel and the average NYMEX price of gas was $12.96 per mcf. In December 2008, the average NYMEX price of oil had fallen to $42.04 per barrel and gas was $6.56 per mcf. In 2009, oil prices rebounded to $74.60 per barrel as of December 31, 2009, while gas prices remained depressed at $4.46 per mcf. Decreases in oil and gas prices have adversely affected our revenues, net income, cash flow and proved reserves. Significant price decreases could have a material adverse effect on our operations and limit our ability to fund capital expenditures. Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves and production. Sustained decreases in oil and gas prices will further adversely affect our revenues, net income, cash flows, proved reserves and our ability to fund capital expenditures. Information concerning our reserves and future net cash flow estimates is uncertain There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved reserves are by their nature uncertain. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could be material. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of oil and gas reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated: the amount and timing of oil and gas production; the revenues and costs associated with that production; and the amount and timing of future development expenditures. 10 Table of Contents The discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves included in this report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. For 2009, as required by generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based on a twelve month average price (beginning of month) while cost estimates are as of the end of the year. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general. If oil and gas prices decrease or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to record write downs of our oil and gas properties In the past we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our oil and gas properties, and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional writedowns in the future. Writedowns may occur when oil and gas prices are low, or if we have downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of operating or development costs, deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where the cost to redrill or repair is not supported by the economics. Accounting rules require that the carrying value of oil and gas properties be periodically reviewed for possible impairment. Impairment is recognized when the book value of a proven property is greater than the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that property and on acreage when conditions indicate the carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required to write down the carrying value of a property based on oil and gas prices at the time of the impairment review, or as a result of continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data, economics and other factors. While an impairment charge reflects our long term ability to recover an investment, it does not impact cash or cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce our reported earnings and increases our leverage ratios. We acquire significant amounts of unproved property to further our development efforts. Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We acquire both producing and unproved properties as well as lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance growth potential and increase our earnings over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, there can be no assurance that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells. Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flow from operations, our bank credit facility and debt and equity issuances. From time to time, we have also engaged in asset monetization transactions. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and gas and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If our access to capital were limited due to numerous factors, which could include a decrease in revenues due to lower gas and oil prices or decreased production or deterioration of the credit and capital markets, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves. We may not be able to incur additional bank debt, issue debt or equity, engage in asset monetization or access other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet our reserve replacement requirements. The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The decline in oil and gas prices in 2008 has adversely impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. If commodity prices (particularly gas prices) continue to decline in 2010, it will have similar adverse effects on our reserves and borrowing base. Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce Because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire and produce additional oil and gas reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future oil and gas production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost. 11 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital resources depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing operations will also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue additional acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase, both to complete such acquisitions and to explore and develop any newly acquired properties. The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations; a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage; our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the general economy; we are subject to numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our existing credit agreements the breach of which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance; our debt level could limit our flexibility to grow the business and in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future. Despite our current levels of indebtedness, we still may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further increase the risks described above. In addition to those risks above, we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Our business is subject to operating hazards that could result in substantial losses or liabilities that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies Oil and gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic natural gas and other environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of: injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution or other environmental damage; clean up responsibilities; regulatory investigations and penalties; or suspension of operations. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. We have experienced substantial increases in premiums, especially in areas affected by hurricanes and tropical storms. Insurers have imposed revised limits affecting how much the insurers will pay on actual storm claims plus the cost to re drill wells where substantial damage has been incurred. Insurers are also requiring us to retain larger deductibles and reducing the scope of what insurable losses will include. Even with the increase in future insurance premiums, coverage will be reduced, requiring us to bear a greater potential risk if our oil and gas properties are damaged. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in our credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, at December 31, 2009, approximately 81% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the remaining 19% subject to variable interest rates. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global finance markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital; a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We are exposed to some credit risk related to our senior credit facility to the extent that one or more of our lenders may be unable to provide necessary funding to us under our existing revolving line of credit if it experiences liquidity problems. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain financing. In addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of accessing the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and limited the amount of funding available to borrowers. As a result, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our current credit facility because (i) our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) the amount we may borrow under our current credit facility could be reduced as a result of lower oil, natural gas liquids or gas prices, declines in reserves, stricter lending requirements or regulations, or for other reasons. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks To manage our exposure to price risk, we, from time to time, enter into hedging arrangements, utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a significant portion of our future production. The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices rise above the price established by the hedge. In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: our production is less than expected; the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or an event materially impacts oil or gas prices or the relationship between the hedged price index and the oil and gas sales price. We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will adequately protect us from declines in the prices of oil and gas. On the other hand, where we choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in oil and gas prices than our competitors who engage in hedging transactions. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our business and marketing oil and gas. Competitors include multinational oil companies, independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our 13 Table of Contents competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or weather industry downturns more easily than we can. The demand for field services and their ability to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill and produce our oil and natural gas properties In a rising price environment, such as those experienced in 2007 and early 2008, well service providers and related equipment and personnel are in short supply. This caused escalating prices, the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use of equipment and inexperienced personnel. In some cases, we are operating in areas where services and infrastructure are limited, or do not exist or in urban areas which are more restrictive. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipelines status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of on going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. While our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, our gas gathering operations may be subject to certain FERC reporting and posting requirements in a given year. FERC has recently issued a final rule (as amended by orders on rehearing, Order 704) requiring certain participants in the natural gas market, including certain gathering facilities and natural gas marketers that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases, to submit annual reports regarding those transactions to FERC. In addition, FERC has issued a final rule (Order 720) requiring major non interstate pipelines, defined as certain non interstate pipelines delivering more than an average of 50 million MMBtu of gas over the previous three calendar years, to post daily certain information regarding the pipelines capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERCs policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipelines rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. For more information regarding the regulation of our operations, please see Government Regulation in Item 1 of this report. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines Under the EPAct 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated as a natural gas company by FERC under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of four otherwise non FERC jurisdiction facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. We also must comply the anti market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject Range to civil penalty liability. For more information regarding regulation of our operations, please see Government Regulation in Item 1 of this report. The oil and gas industry is subject to extensive regulation The oil and gas industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United States by local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous departments and agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on participants in the oil and gas industry. Compliance with such rules and regulations often increases our cost of doing business, delays our operations and, in turn, decreases our profitability. 14 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws, regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property damage or injuries to employees and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and even may be caused by previous owners of property we own or lease. Any past, present or future failure by us to completely comply with environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could cause us to incur substantial fines, sanctions or liabilities from cleanup costs or other damages. Incurrence of those costs or damages could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses. Climate change is receiving increasing attention from scientists and legislators alike. The debate is ongoing as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the potential causes of this change and its potential impacts. Some attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Presently there are no federally mandated greenhouse gas reduction requirements in the United States. However, in June 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed bill H.R. 2454, American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, which proposes reducing greenhouse gas emissions to 17% below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83% below 2005 levels by 2050. The bill has now passed to the United States Senate for debate and vote. Consequently, the precise federal mandatory emissions reduction program that may be adopted and the specific requirements of any such program are uncertain. There are a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phase of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. These actions could: result in increased costs associated with our operations; increase other costs to our business; affect the demand for natural gas, and impact the prices we charge our customers. Any adoption by federal or state governments mandating a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions could have far reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry and the U.S. economy. We cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Among the changes contained in President Obamas budget proposal for fiscal year 2011, released by the White House on February 1, 2010, is the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax provisions currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. As of December 31, 2009, we have a tax basis of $526 million related to prior year capitalized intangible drilling costs which will be amortized over the next five years. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendells budget proposal for fiscal year 2011, released on February 9, 2009, proposed a new natural gas wellhead tax on both volumes and sales of natural gas extracted in Pennsylvania, where the majority of our acreage in the Marcellus Shale is located. The passage of any legislation as a result of the Pennsylvania state budget proposal could increase the tax burden on our operations in the Marcellus Shale. The elimination of certain federal tax deductions or the imposition of new state taxes discussed about could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It generally is not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily, a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed. In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or regulatory approvals. Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with recent and future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel and none of them is currently subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise. Drilling is a high risk activity The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil and gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of other factors, including: high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor, or other services; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; reductions in oil and gas prices; limitations in the market for oil and gas; adverse weather conditions; facility or equipment malfunctions; equipment failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures; casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipelines ruptures, and discharges of toxic gases; lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations; loss of drilling fluid circulation; pressure or irregularities in formations; 16 Table of Contents fires; natural disasters; surface craterings and explosions; and uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete The oil and gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Federal legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. The United States Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to eliminate an existing exemption for hydraulic fracturing activities. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into rock formation to stimulate natural gas production. We find that the use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of natural gas and oil from many reservoirs, especially shale formations such as the Barnett Shale and the Marcellus Shale. If adopted, this legislation could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level. This additional regulation and permitting could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional burdens that could increase our costs of compliance and doing business as well as delay the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. Our business depends on oil and gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by others The marketability of our oil and gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. We have recently entered into some firm arrangements in certain of our production areas. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and gas. If any of these third party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport our product, or if the natural gas quality specifications for a natural gas pipeline or facility changes so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues could be adversely affected. The disruption of third party facilities due to maintenance and or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and 17 Table of Contents principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. We exist in a litigious environment Any constituent could bring suit regarding our existing or planned operations or allege a violation of an existing contract. Any such action could delay when planned operations can actually commence or could cause a halt to existing production until such alleged violations are resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in defending our rights, but halting existing production or delaying planned operations could impact our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities. Our financial statements are complex Due to United States generally accepted accounting rules and the nature of our business, our financial statements continue to be complex, particularly with reference to hedging, asset retirement obligations, equity awards, deferred taxes and the accounting for our deferred compensation plans. We expect such complexity to continue and possibly increase. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued In 2004, 2005 and 2006, we sold 40.2 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2007, we sold 8.1 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2008, we sold 4.4 million shares of common stock with the proceeds used to pay down a portion of the outstanding balance of our bank credit facility. In 2009, we issued 744,000 shares of common stock to purchase acreage in the Marcellus Shale. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is limited by our bank credit facility and our senior subordinated note agreements. We also issue restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to our employees and directors as part of their compensation. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock, additional subordinated notes or other securities or debt convertible into common stock, to extend maturities or fund capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders. Dividend limitations Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are imposed under our bank credit facility and under our senior subordinated note agreements. These limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends independent of our dividend policy. Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2009, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $23.77 per share to a high of $76.81 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: changes in oil and gas prices; variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results; changes in governmental regulation; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; changes in market valuations of comparable companies; additions or departures of key personnel; or future sales of our stock. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future and our stock price could decline as a result. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The table below summarizes data for our operating regions for the year ended December 31, 2009. Average Daily Production Proved Percentage of (mcfe Production Percentage of Reserves Proved Region per day) (mcfe) Production (Mmcfe) Reserves Southwestern 256,941 93,783,324 59 % 1,314,497 42 % Appalachian 178,982 65,328,638 41 % 1,814,242 58 % 435,923 159,111,962 100 % 3,128,739 100 % Approximately 65% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2009 are located in the Barnett Shale in our Southwestern region and the Marcellus Shale and Nora Area in our Appalachian region. Each of these plays has a large portfolio of drilling opportunities. Our reserve estimates do not include any probable or possible reserves. We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments; therefore, segment reporting is not applicable to us. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Southwestern Region The Southwestern region includes drilling, production and field operations in the Barnett Shale of North Central Texas, the Permian Basin of West Texas and eastern New Mexico, and the East Texas Basin, as well as in the Texas Panhandle, Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma and Louisiana and Mississippi. In the Southwestern region, we own 1,854 net producing wells, 96% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 66%. We have approximately 886,000 gross (568,000 net) acres under lease. Total proved reserves in the Southwestern region decreased 26.6 Bcfe, or 2%, at December 31, 2009, when compared to year end 2008. Production, asset sales (103.5 Bcfe) and an unfavorable reserve revision for lower prices were partially offset by drilling additions (195.5 Bcfe). Annual production increased 4% over 2008. During 2009, the region spent $252.9 million to drill 90 (77.1 net) development wells, of which 89 (76.5 net) were productive, and 7 (6.1 net) exploratory wells, of which 6 (5.4 net) were productive. During the year, the region achieved a 99% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2009, the Southwestern region had a development inventory of 441 proven drilling locations and 421 proven recompletions. During the year, the Southwestern region drilled 37 proven locations and added 75 new proven locations. Development projects include recompletions, infill drilling and to a lesser extent, installation of secondary recovery projects. These activities also include increasing reserves and production through cost control, upgrading lifting equipment, improving gathering systems and surface facilities, and performing restimulations and refracturing operations. Barnett Shale Our operations in the Barnett Shale of North Texas began with the 2006 acquisition of Stroud Energy. We added additional properties from various acquisitions in 2007 and 2008. We now own approximately 131,700 net acres. At December 31, 2009, we have 167 proven drilling locations in this area, and 51 proven recompletions and plan to drill 28 wells in 2010. Our production in the Barnett Shale increased from 93,654 mcfe per day in 2008 to 122,030 mcfe per day in 2009. During 2009, we drilled 47 net development wells, all of which were successful. 19 Table of Contents Appalachian Region Our properties in this area are located in the Appalachian Basin in the northeastern United States, principally in Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia and Virginia. The reserves principally produce from the Pennsylvanian (coalbed formation), Upper Devonian, Medina, Clinton, Big Lime and Marcellus Shale formations at depths ranging from 2,500 to 9,000 feet. Generally, after initial flush production, most of these properties are characterized by gradual decline rates, typically producing for more than 40 years. We own 8,052 net producing wells, 66% of which we operate, and approximately 4,000 miles of gas gathering lines. Our average working interest is 77%. We have approximately 2.3 million gross (1.9 million net) acres under lease, which include 289,000 acres where we also own a royalty interest. Reserves at December 31, 2009 increased 501.8 Bcfe, or 38%, from 2008 with drilling additions (574.4 Bcfe) partially offset by asset sales (36.1 Bcfe) and production. Annual production increased 28% over 2008. During 2009, the region spent $348.8 million to drill 352 (194.0 net) development wells, all of which were productive, and 14 (8.3 net) exploratory wells, all of which were productive. At December 31, 2009, the Appalachian region had an inventory of 3,600 proven drilling locations and 500 proven recompletions. During the year, the Appalachian region drilled 248 proven locations and added 566 new proven locations. In December 2009, we announced our plans to offer for sale our tight gas sand properties in Ohio, which include 3,500 producing wells, 418,000 net acres of leasehold and 1,600 miles of pipelines and gathering system infrastructure. Parties began evaluations in January 2010 and on February 8, 2010, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to sell these assets for a purchase price of $330.0 million, subject to typical post closing terms and conditions. In 2009, these properties produced 25.9 Mmcfe per day. Marcellus Shale We began operations in the Marcellus Shale, located in Pennsylvania, in 2004. This has been our largest investment area over the last two years. We recorded 167 proven drilling locations at December 31, 2009. Our 2009 production was 150% greater than 2008 and at year end 2009 was about 113,000 mcfe per day. During 2009, we drilled 44 net development wells and 4 net exploratory wells in the Marcellus Shale, all of which were successful. In 2010, we plan to drill 150 wells. We have long term agreements with third parties to provide gathering and processing services and infrastructure assets in the Marcellus Shale. In fourth quarter 2009, MarkWest Liberty Midstream, L.L.C. completed a phase three expansion, pursuant to these agreements. This expansion included an additional 120,000 mcf per day of cryogenic natural gas processing, 20 additional miles of gathering and residue gas pipelines and 21,000 horsepower of additional compression. Nora Area In 2004, we acquired natural gas properties in the Nora Area. In 2007, we equalized our working interests in a portion of the field with EQT Corporation and entered into a joint development plan. We have over 1,600 proven drilling locations in the Nora Field. Production in the Nora Area increased from 46,800 Mcfe per day in 2008 to 52,400 Mcfe per day in 2009. During 2009, we drilled 148 net development wells and 4 net exploratory wells and achieved a 100% drilling success rate. In 2010, we plan to drill 229 wells. Proved Reserves In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions to modernize its oil and gas company reserve reporting requirements. We adopted the new rules as of December 31, 2009. See additional disclosures below and also in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Proximity to local markets, 5 Table of Contents availability of competitive fuels and overall supply and demand are factors affecting the prices for which our production can be sold. Market volatility due to international political developments, overall energy supply and demand, fluctuating weather conditions, economic growth rates and other factors in the United States and worldwide have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on energy prices. We incur gathering and transportation expenses to move our natural gas and crude oil from the wellhead and tanks to purchaser specified delivery points. These expenses vary based on volume, distance shipped and the fee charged by the third party transporters. In the Southwestern region, our gas and oil production is transported primarily through third party trucks, field gathering systems and transmission pipelines. Transportation capacity on these gathering systems and pipelines is occasionally constrained. In Appalachia, we own approximately 4,000 miles of gas gathering pipelines, which transport a portion of our Appalachian gas production and third party gas to transmission lines and directly to end users, and interstate pipelines. Our remaining Appalachian gas volume is transported on third party pipelines on which, in some cases, we hold long term contractual capacity. For additional information, see Risk Factors Our business depends on oil and gas transportation facilities, many of which are owned by others, in Item 1A of this report. Governmental Regulation Our operations are substantially affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations. In particular, oil and gas production and related operations are, or have been, subject to price controls, taxes and numerous other laws and regulations. All of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate producing crude oil and natural gas properties have statutory provisions regulating the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas, including provisions related to permits for the drilling of wells, bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, and the abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells which may be drilled in an area, and the unitization or pooling of crude oil and natural gas wells, as well as regulations that generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individual wells. In August 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005). Among other matters, the EPAct 2005 amends the Natural Gas Act (NGA), to make it unlawful for any entity, including otherwise non jurisdictional producers such as Range, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), in contravention of rules prescribed by the FERC. On January 20, 2006, the FERC issued rules implementing this provision. The rules make it unlawful in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit any such statement necessary to make the statements not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1,000,000 per day per violation. The new anti manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non jurisdictional sale or gathering, but does apply to activities or otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction. It therefore reflects a significant expansion of FERCs enforcement authority. Range does not anticipate it will be affected any differently than other producers of natural gas by this act. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, such laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil and gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the FERC, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. On December 26, 2007, FERC issued a final rule on the annual natural gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing (Order 704). Under Order 704, wholesale buyers and sellers of more than 2.2 million Mmbtus of physical natural gas in the previous calendar year, including natural gas gatherers and marketers, are now required to report, on May 1 of each year beginning in 2009, aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to the formation of price indices. It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. Order 704 also requires market participants to indicate whether they report prices to any index publishers, and if so, whether their reporting complies with FERCs policy statement on price reporting. 6 Table of Contents On November 20, 2008, FERC issued a final rule on the daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements (Order 720). Under Order 720, major non interstate pipelines, defined as certain non interstate pipelines delivering, on an annual basis, more than an average of 50 million Mmbtus of gas over the previous three calendar years, are required to post daily certain information regarding the pipelines capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has a design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. Requests for clarification and rehearing of Order 720 have been filed at FERC and a decision on those requests is pending. Environmental and Occupational Matters Our operations are subject to numerous stringent federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection, some of which carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, production and transporting through pipelines, govern the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, limit or prohibit drilling activities in certain areas and on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier and other protected areas, require some form of remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen impoundments and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations or failure to comply with regulatory filings. In addition, these laws and regulations may restrict the rate of production. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (CERCLA), also known as the Superfund law, and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons may include owners or operators of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, all of these persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties, pursuant to environmental statutes, common law or both, to file claims for personal injury and property damages allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants into the environment. Although petroleum, including crude oil and natural gas, is not a hazardous substance under CERCLA, at least two courts have ruled that certain wastes associated with the production of crude oil may be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA and that releases of such wastes may therefore give rise to liability under CERCLA. While we generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances, we have not received notification that we may be potentially responsible for cleanup costs under CERCLA or comparable state laws. Other state laws regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes, and new state and federal legislative initiatives that could have a significant impact on us may periodically be proposed and enacted. We also may incur liability under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended (RCRA), which imposes requirements related to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. While there is an exclusion from the definition of hazardous wastes for drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy, these wastes may be regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or state agencies as non hazardous solid waste. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils, can be regulated as hazardous wastes. Although the costs of managing wastes classified as hazardous waste may be significant, we do not expect to experience more burdensome costs than similarly situated companies. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other locations where such materials have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes was not under our control. These properties and the materials disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state laws and regulations. Under such laws and regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), and comparable state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other oil and gas wastes, into federal and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or the state. These laws and any implementing regulations provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for any unauthorized discharges of oil and other substances in reportable quantities and may impose substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and 7 Table of Contents maintain approvals or permits for the discharge of wastewater or storm water and are required to develop and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans, also referred to as SPCC plans, in connection with on site storage of greater than threshold quantities of oil. We are currently undertaking a review of our oil and gas properties to determine the need for new or updated SPCC plans and, where necessary, we will be developing or upgrading such plans, the costs of which are not expected to be substantial. The Clean Air Act, as amended, and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including compressor stations. These laws and any implementing regulations may require us to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent air permit requirements, or use specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. While we may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next few years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits addressing other air emission related issues, we do not believe that such requirements will have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended, or the OPA, contains numerous requirements relating to the prevention of and response to oil spills into waters of the United States. The OPA subjects owners of facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters. While we believe we have been in compliance with OPA, noncompliance could result in varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities. Changes in environmental laws and regulations sometimes occur, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements for any substances used or produced in our operations could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those of the oil and gas industry in general. For instance, recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, also known as the Waxman Markey Bill, which would establish an economy wide cap and trade program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including carbon dioxide and methane by 17 percent from 2005 levels by the year 2020 and 80 percent by the year 2050. The U.S. Senate is considering a number of comparable measures. One such measure, the Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act, or the Boxer Kerry Bill, has been reported out of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, but has not yet been considered by the full Senate and also includes a cap and trade system for controlling greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. Under such a system, certain sources of greenhouse gas emissions would be required to obtain greenhouse gas emission allowances corresponding to their annual emissions of greenhouse gases. The ultimate outcome of these bills remains uncertain, and such bills would have to undergo reconciliation before being adopted as law. In addition, at least 20 states have already taken legal measures to control emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. In California, for example, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 requires the California Air Resources Board to adopt regulations by 2012 that will achieve an overall reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all sources in California of 25% by 2020. On April 2, 2007, the United States Supreme Court held that, if EPA found that greenhouse gas concentrations endanger public health and welfare, it was obligated to regulate their emissions under the Clean Air Act. On December 15, 2009, EPA issued Endangerment and Cause of Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, in which it concluded that the atmospheric concentrations of several greenhouse gases threaten the health and welfare of future generations, and that the combined emissions of these gases from motor vehicles contribute to the atmospheric concentrations of these key greenhouse gases, and, hence, to the threat of climate change. On September 15, 2009, EPA and the Department of Transportation proposed rules that would limit emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles. The Agencies are expected to finalize those rules in March of 2010. While EPAs endangerment findings and its proposed rules on greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources do not specifically address stationary sources, it is EPAs view that once the mobile sources rules are finalized in March 2010, emissions of greenhouse gases from stationary sources will be covered under the federal Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V air permit programs, which apply to major sources of air emissions. In order to deal with the problem of an excessive number of sources being drawn into these programs, EPA has proposed to reset the 250 tons per year major source threshold to 25,000 tons per year of carbon dioxide CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalency) in the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule. 8 Table of Contents On September 23, 2009, EPA finalized a greenhouse gas reporting rule establishing a national greenhouse gas emissions collection and reporting program. The EPA rules will require covered entities to measure greenhouse gas emissions commencing in 2010 and submit reports commencing in 2011. While we do not operate stationary sources that emit significant quantities of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, we do utilize gas processing plants to process the natural gas that we produce and, thus if such processors were to incur increased costs to acquire and surrender emission allowances or otherwise to capture and dispose of greenhouse gases, it is possible that these costs, which might be significant, could be passed along to us as well as similarly situated producers. Moreover, any adoption of a program to tax the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases potentially could be imposed on us and other similarly situated producers of natural gas. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business or demand for our products. Given the possible impact of legislation and or regulation of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, we have considered and expect to continue to consider the impact of laws or regulations intended to address climate change on our operations. We do not believe our operations require reporting or monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions under existing laws and regulations; however, we do operate mobile equipment in the normal course of our business that emits carbon dioxide as well as some stationary engines that power compressors and pumping equipment. Methane is a primary constituent of natural gas and, like all oil and gas exploration and production companies, we produce significant quantities of natural gas; however, such production of natural gas, including its constituent hydrocarbon including methane, is gathered and transported in pipelines under pressure and we therefore do not emit significant quantities of methane in connection with our operations. Given our lack of significant points of carbon dioxide emissions, we have focused most of our efforts on physical environmental ground, water and air issues in our operations. We are also subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended (OSHA), and comparable state laws that regulate the protection of the health and safety of employees. In addition, OSHAs hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with the OSHA requirements. Finally, the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives are currently considering bills entitled, the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, or the FRAC Act, to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, or the SDWA, to repeal an exemption from regulation for hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process involving the injection of water, sand and small amounts of chemical additives under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil or natural gas production. Sponsors of these bills have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could result in third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business as well as delay the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. In summary, we believe we are in substantial compliance with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with environmental requirements, there is no assurance that this will continue. We did not have any material capital or other non recurring expenditures in connection with complying with environmental laws or environmental remediation matters in 2009, nor do we anticipate that such expenditures will be material in 2010. However, we regularly have expenditures to comply with environmental laws and those costs continue to increase as our operations expand. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. Risks Related to Our Business Volatility of oil and gas prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources and could hamper our ability to produce oil and gas economically Oil and gas prices are volatile, and a decline in prices adversely affects our profitability and financial condition. The oil and gas industry is typically cyclical, and prices for oil and gas have been volatile. Historically, the industry has experienced downturns characterized by oversupply and or weak demand. Long term supply and demand for oil and gas is uncertain and subject to a myriad of factors such as: the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; the price and availability of alternative fuels; weather conditions; the level of consumer demand; the price of foreign imports; worldwide economic conditions; the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities and processing facilities; the effect of worldwide energy conservation efforts; political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes. Oil and gas prices have been volatile over the past 18 months. In July 2008, the average New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) price of oil was $133.49 per barrel and the average NYMEX price of gas was $12.96 per mcf. In December 2008, the average NYMEX price of oil had fallen to $42.04 per barrel and gas was $6.56 per mcf. In 2009, oil prices rebounded to $74.60 per barrel as of December 31, 2009, while gas prices remained depressed at $4.46 per mcf. Decreases in oil and gas prices have adversely affected our revenues, net income, cash flow and proved reserves. Significant price decreases could have a material adverse effect on our operations and limit our ability to fund capital expenditures. Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves and production. Sustained decreases in oil and gas prices will further adversely affect our revenues, net income, cash flows, proved reserves and our ability to fund capital expenditures. Information concerning our reserves and future net cash flow estimates is uncertain There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved reserves are by their nature uncertain. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could be material. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of oil and gas reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated: the amount and timing of oil and gas production; the revenues and costs associated with that production; and the amount and timing of future development expenditures. 10 Table of Contents The discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves included in this report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. For 2009, as required by generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based on a twelve month average price (beginning of month) while cost estimates are as of the end of the year. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general. If oil and gas prices decrease or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to record write downs of our oil and gas properties In the past we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our oil and gas properties, and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional writedowns in the future. Writedowns may occur when oil and gas prices are low, or if we have downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of operating or development costs, deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where the cost to redrill or repair is not supported by the economics. Accounting rules require that the carrying value of oil and gas properties be periodically reviewed for possible impairment. Impairment is recognized when the book value of a proven property is greater than the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that property and on acreage when conditions indicate the carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required to write down the carrying value of a property based on oil and gas prices at the time of the impairment review, or as a result of continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data, economics and other factors. While an impairment charge reflects our long term ability to recover an investment, it does not impact cash or cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce our reported earnings and increases our leverage ratios. We acquire significant amounts of unproved property to further our development efforts. Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We acquire both producing and unproved properties as well as lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance growth potential and increase our earnings over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, there can be no assurance that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells. Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flow from operations, our bank credit facility and debt and equity issuances. From time to time, we have also engaged in asset monetization transactions. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and gas and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If our access to capital were limited due to numerous factors, which could include a decrease in revenues due to lower gas and oil prices or decreased production or deterioration of the credit and capital markets, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves. We may not be able to incur additional bank debt, issue debt or equity, engage in asset monetization or access other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet our reserve replacement requirements. The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The decline in oil and gas prices in 2008 has adversely impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. If commodity prices (particularly gas prices) continue to decline in 2010, it will have similar adverse effects on our reserves and borrowing base. Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce Because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire and produce additional oil and gas reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future oil and gas production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost. 11 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital resources depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing operations will also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue additional acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase, both to complete such acquisitions and to explore and develop any newly acquired properties. The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations; a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage; our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the general economy; we are subject to numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our existing credit agreements the breach of which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance; our debt level could limit our flexibility to grow the business and in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future. Despite our current levels of indebtedness, we still may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further increase the risks described above. In addition to those risks above, we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Our business is subject to operating hazards that could result in substantial losses or liabilities that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies Oil and gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic natural gas and other environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of: injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution or other environmental damage; clean up responsibilities; regulatory investigations and penalties; or suspension of operations. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. We have experienced substantial increases in premiums, especially in areas affected by hurricanes and tropical storms. Insurers have imposed revised limits affecting how much the insurers will pay on actual storm claims plus the cost to re drill wells where substantial damage has been incurred. Insurers are also requiring us to retain larger deductibles and reducing the scope of what insurable losses will include. Even with the increase in future insurance premiums, coverage will be reduced, requiring us to bear a greater potential risk if our oil and gas properties are damaged. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in our credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, at December 31, 2009, approximately 81% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the remaining 19% subject to variable interest rates. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global finance markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital; a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We are exposed to some credit risk related to our senior credit facility to the extent that one or more of our lenders may be unable to provide necessary funding to us under our existing revolving line of credit if it experiences liquidity problems. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain financing. In addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of accessing the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and limited the amount of funding available to borrowers. As a result, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our current credit facility because (i) our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) the amount we may borrow under our current credit facility could be reduced as a result of lower oil, natural gas liquids or gas prices, declines in reserves, stricter lending requirements or regulations, or for other reasons. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks To manage our exposure to price risk, we, from time to time, enter into hedging arrangements, utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a significant portion of our future production. The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices rise above the price established by the hedge. In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: our production is less than expected; the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or an event materially impacts oil or gas prices or the relationship between the hedged price index and the oil and gas sales price. We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will adequately protect us from declines in the prices of oil and gas. On the other hand, where we choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in oil and gas prices than our competitors who engage in hedging transactions. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our business and marketing oil and gas. Competitors include multinational oil companies, independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our 13 Table of Contents competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or weather industry downturns more easily than we can. The demand for field services and their ability to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill and produce our oil and natural gas properties In a rising price environment, such as those experienced in 2007 and early 2008, well service providers and related equipment and personnel are in short supply. This caused escalating prices, the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use of equipment and inexperienced personnel. In some cases, we are operating in areas where services and infrastructure are limited, or do not exist or in urban areas which are more restrictive. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipelines status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of on going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. While our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, our gas gathering operations may be subject to certain FERC reporting and posting requirements in a given year. FERC has recently issued a final rule (as amended by orders on rehearing, Order 704) requiring certain participants in the natural gas market, including certain gathering facilities and natural gas marketers that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases, to submit annual reports regarding those transactions to FERC. In addition, FERC has issued a final rule (Order 720) requiring major non interstate pipelines, defined as certain non interstate pipelines delivering more than an average of 50 million MMBtu of gas over the previous three calendar years, to post daily certain information regarding the pipelines capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERCs policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipelines rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. For more information regarding the regulation of our operations, please see Government Regulation in Item 1 of this report. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines Under the EPAct 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated as a natural gas company by FERC under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of four otherwise non FERC jurisdiction facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. We also must comply the anti market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject Range to civil penalty liability. For more information regarding regulation of our operations, please see Government Regulation in Item 1 of this report. The oil and gas industry is subject to extensive regulation The oil and gas industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United States by local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous departments and agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on participants in the oil and gas industry. Compliance with such rules and regulations often increases our cost of doing business, delays our operations and, in turn, decreases our profitability. 14 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws, regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property damage or injuries to employees and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and even may be caused by previous owners of property we own or lease. Any past, present or future failure by us to completely comply with environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could cause us to incur substantial fines, sanctions or liabilities from cleanup costs or other damages. Incurrence of those costs or damages could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses. Climate change is receiving increasing attention from scientists and legislators alike. The debate is ongoing as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the potential causes of this change and its potential impacts. Some attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Presently there are no federally mandated greenhouse gas reduction requirements in the United States. However, in June 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed bill H.R. 2454, American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, which proposes reducing greenhouse gas emissions to 17% below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83% below 2005 levels by 2050. The bill has now passed to the United States Senate for debate and vote. Consequently, the precise federal mandatory emissions reduction program that may be adopted and the specific requirements of any such program are uncertain. There are a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phase of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. These actions could: result in increased costs associated with our operations; increase other costs to our business; affect the demand for natural gas, and impact the prices we charge our customers. Any adoption by federal or state governments mandating a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions could have far reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry and the U.S. economy. We cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Among the changes contained in President Obamas budget proposal for fiscal year 2011, released by the White House on February 1, 2010, is the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax provisions currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. As of December 31, 2009, we have a tax basis of $526 million related to prior year capitalized intangible drilling costs which will be amortized over the next five years. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendells budget proposal for fiscal year 2011, released on February 9, 2009, proposed a new natural gas wellhead tax on both volumes and sales of natural gas extracted in Pennsylvania, where the majority of our acreage in the Marcellus Shale is located. The passage of any legislation as a result of the Pennsylvania state budget proposal could increase the tax burden on our operations in the Marcellus Shale. The elimination of certain federal tax deductions or the imposition of new state taxes discussed about could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It generally is not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily, a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed. In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or regulatory approvals. Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with recent and future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel and none of them is currently subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise. Drilling is a high risk activity The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil and gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of other factors, including: high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor, or other services; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; reductions in oil and gas prices; limitations in the market for oil and gas; adverse weather conditions; facility or equipment malfunctions; equipment failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures; casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipelines ruptures, and discharges of toxic gases; lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations; loss of drilling fluid circulation; pressure or irregularities in formations; 16 Table of Contents fires; natural disasters; surface craterings and explosions; and uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete The oil and gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Federal legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. The United States Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to eliminate an existing exemption for hydraulic fracturing activities. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into rock formation to stimulate natural gas production. We find that the use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of natural gas and oil from many reservoirs, especially shale formations such as the Barnett Shale and the Marcellus Shale. If adopted, this legislation could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level. This additional regulation and permitting could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional burdens that could increase our costs of compliance and doing business as well as delay the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. Our business depends on oil and gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by others The marketability of our oil and gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. We have recently entered into some firm arrangements in certain of our production areas. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and gas. If any of these third party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport our product, or if the natural gas quality specifications for a natural gas pipeline or facility changes so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues could be adversely affected. The disruption of third party facilities due to maintenance and or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and 17 Table of Contents principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. We exist in a litigious environment Any constituent could bring suit regarding our existing or planned operations or allege a violation of an existing contract. Any such action could delay when planned operations can actually commence or could cause a halt to existing production until such alleged violations are resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in defending our rights, but halting existing production or delaying planned operations could impact our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities. Our financial statements are complex Due to United States generally accepted accounting rules and the nature of our business, our financial statements continue to be complex, particularly with reference to hedging, asset retirement obligations, equity awards, deferred taxes and the accounting for our deferred compensation plans. We expect such complexity to continue and possibly increase. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued In 2004, 2005 and 2006, we sold 40.2 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2007, we sold 8.1 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2008, we sold 4.4 million shares of common stock with the proceeds used to pay down a portion of the outstanding balance of our bank credit facility. In 2009, we issued 744,000 shares of common stock to purchase acreage in the Marcellus Shale. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is limited by our bank credit facility and our senior subordinated note agreements. We also issue restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to our employees and directors as part of their compensation. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock, additional subordinated notes or other securities or debt convertible into common stock, to extend maturities or fund capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders. Dividend limitations Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are imposed under our bank credit facility and under our senior subordinated note agreements. These limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends independent of our dividend policy. Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2009, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $23.77 per share to a high of $76.81 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: changes in oil and gas prices; variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results; changes in governmental regulation; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; changes in market valuations of comparable companies; additions or departures of key personnel; or future sales of our stock. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future and our stock price could decline as a result. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The table below summarizes data for our operating regions for the year ended December 31, 2009. Average Daily Production Proved Percentage of (mcfe Production Percentage of Reserves Proved Region per day) (mcfe) Production (Mmcfe) Reserves Southwestern 256,941 93,783,324 59 % 1,314,497 42 % Appalachian 178,982 65,328,638 41 % 1,814,242 58 % 435,923 159,111,962 100 % 3,128,739 100 % Approximately 65% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2009 are located in the Barnett Shale in our Southwestern region and the Marcellus Shale and Nora Area in our Appalachian region. Each of these plays has a large portfolio of drilling opportunities. Our reserve estimates do not include any probable or possible reserves. We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments; therefore, segment reporting is not applicable to us. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Southwestern Region The Southwestern region includes drilling, production and field operations in the Barnett Shale of North Central Texas, the Permian Basin of West Texas and eastern New Mexico, and the East Texas Basin, as well as in the Texas Panhandle, Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma and Louisiana and Mississippi. In the Southwestern region, we own 1,854 net producing wells, 96% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 66%. We have approximately 886,000 gross (568,000 net) acres under lease. Total proved reserves in the Southwestern region decreased 26.6 Bcfe, or 2%, at December 31, 2009, when compared to year end 2008. Production, asset sales (103.5 Bcfe) and an unfavorable reserve revision for lower prices were partially offset by drilling additions (195.5 Bcfe). Annual production increased 4% over 2008. During 2009, the region spent $252.9 million to drill 90 (77.1 net) development wells, of which 89 (76.5 net) were productive, and 7 (6.1 net) exploratory wells, of which 6 (5.4 net) were productive. During the year, the region achieved a 99% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2009, the Southwestern region had a development inventory of 441 proven drilling locations and 421 proven recompletions. During the year, the Southwestern region drilled 37 proven locations and added 75 new proven locations. Development projects include recompletions, infill drilling and to a lesser extent, installation of secondary recovery projects. These activities also include increasing reserves and production through cost control, upgrading lifting equipment, improving gathering systems and surface facilities, and performing restimulations and refracturing operations. Barnett Shale Our operations in the Barnett Shale of North Texas began with the 2006 acquisition of Stroud Energy. We added additional properties from various acquisitions in 2007 and 2008. We now own approximately 131,700 net acres. At December 31, 2009, we have 167 proven drilling locations in this area, and 51 proven recompletions and plan to drill 28 wells in 2010. Our production in the Barnett Shale increased from 93,654 mcfe per day in 2008 to 122,030 mcfe per day in 2009. During 2009, we drilled 47 net development wells, all of which were successful. 19 Table of Contents Appalachian Region Our properties in this area are located in the Appalachian Basin in the northeastern United States, principally in Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia and Virginia. The reserves principally produce from the Pennsylvanian (coalbed formation), Upper Devonian, Medina, Clinton, Big Lime and Marcellus Shale formations at depths ranging from 2,500 to 9,000 feet. Generally, after initial flush production, most of these properties are characterized by gradual decline rates, typically producing for more than 40 years. We own 8,052 net producing wells, 66% of which we operate, and approximately 4,000 miles of gas gathering lines. Our average working interest is 77%. We have approximately 2.3 million gross (1.9 million net) acres under lease, which include 289,000 acres where we also own a royalty interest. Reserves at December 31, 2009 increased 501.8 Bcfe, or 38%, from 2008 with drilling additions (574.4 Bcfe) partially offset by asset sales (36.1 Bcfe) and production. Annual production increased 28% over 2008. During 2009, the region spent $348.8 million to drill 352 (194.0 net) development wells, all of which were productive, and 14 (8.3 net) exploratory wells, all of which were productive. At December 31, 2009, the Appalachian region had an inventory of 3,600 proven drilling locations and 500 proven recompletions. During the year, the Appalachian region drilled 248 proven locations and added 566 new proven locations. In December 2009, we announced our plans to offer for sale our tight gas sand properties in Ohio, which include 3,500 producing wells, 418,000 net acres of leasehold and 1,600 miles of pipelines and gathering system infrastructure. Parties began evaluations in January 2010 and on February 8, 2010, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to sell these assets for a purchase price of $330.0 million, subject to typical post closing terms and conditions. In 2009, these properties produced 25.9 Mmcfe per day. Marcellus Shale We began operations in the Marcellus Shale, located in Pennsylvania, in 2004. This has been our largest investment area over the last two years. We recorded 167 proven drilling locations at December 31, 2009. Our 2009 production was 150% greater than 2008 and at year end 2009 was about 113,000 mcfe per day. During 2009, we drilled 44 net development wells and 4 net exploratory wells in the Marcellus Shale, all of which were successful. In 2010, we plan to drill 150 wells. We have long term agreements with third parties to provide gathering and processing services and infrastructure assets in the Marcellus Shale. In fourth quarter 2009, MarkWest Liberty Midstream, L.L.C. completed a phase three expansion, pursuant to these agreements. This expansion included an additional 120,000 mcf per day of cryogenic natural gas processing, 20 additional miles of gathering and residue gas pipelines and 21,000 horsepower of additional compression. Nora Area In 2004, we acquired natural gas properties in the Nora Area. In 2007, we equalized our working interests in a portion of the field with EQT Corporation and entered into a joint development plan. We have over 1,600 proven drilling locations in the Nora Field. Production in the Nora Area increased from 46,800 Mcfe per day in 2008 to 52,400 Mcfe per day in 2009. During 2009, we drilled 148 net development wells and 4 net exploratory wells and achieved a 100% drilling success rate. In 2010, we plan to drill 229 wells. Proved Reserves In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions to modernize its oil and gas company reserve reporting requirements. We adopted the new rules as of December 31, 2009. See additional disclosures below and also in 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our business and results of operations together with our present financial condition. This section should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Statements in our discussion may be forward looking. These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that a number of factors could cause future production, revenues and expenses to differ materially from our expectations. See Disclosures Regarding Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Annual Report and Risk Factors in Item 1A for additional discussion of some of these factors and risks. Overview of Our Business We are an independent natural gas company engaged in the exploration, development and acquisition of primarily gas properties, mostly in the Southwestern and Appalachian regions of the United States. We operate in one segment. We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. Our strategy is to increase reserves and production through internally generated drilling projects coupled with complementary acquisitions. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and gas and on our ability to economically find, develop, acquire and produce oil and gas reserves. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas activities. Our corporate headquarters is located in Fort Worth, Texas. Industry Environment We operate entirely within the United States. As traditional basins in the U.S. have matured, exploration and production has shifted to unconventional resource plays, typically shale reservoirs that historically were not thought to be productive for oil and gas. These plays cover large areas, provide multi year inventories of drilling opportunities and, with modern oil and gas technology, have sustainable lower risk growth profiles. The economics of these plays have been enhanced by continued advancements in drilling and completion technologies. These advancements make these plays more resilient to lower commodity prices while increasing the domestic supply of natural gas and, with increased supply, an expected reduction in the volatility of natural gas prices. Examples of such technological advancements include advanced 3 D seismic processing, hydraulic reservoir fracture stimulation using almost one hundred percent sand and water, advances in well logging and analysis, horizontal drilling and completion technologies and automated remote well monitoring and control devices. Oil and gas are commodities. The price that we receive for the natural gas we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand in the United States. Demand for natural gas in the United States increased substantially over the past 10 years; however, the current economic slowdown has reduced this demand. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of natural gas can result in price volatility. Factors impacting the future supply balance are the growth in domestic gas production and the increase in the United States LNG import capacity. American gas supplies have increased as a result of recent expansion in domestic unconventional gas production. Existing LNG capacity may result in lower natural gas prices. Crude oil prices are generally determined by global supply and demand. The reduced liquidity provided by the worldwide financial markets and other factors resulted in an economic slowdown in the United States and other industrialized countries in 2008, which resulted in reductions in worldwide energy demand. At the same time, North American gas supply has increased as a result of the expansion in domestic unconventional gas production. The combination of lower demand due to the economic slowdown and higher North American gas supply has resulted in declines in natural gas prices from their highs in mid 2008. These circumstances have led to a decrease in drilling activity and reduced the demand for drilling rigs, oilfield supplies, tubulars and drill pipe. During 2009, we experienced lower overall industry costs, but these declines lagged behind the decline in prices. The duration and magnitude of the commodity price declines cannot be predicted. 30 Table of Contents Oil and gas prices affect: the amount of cash flow available to us for capital expenditures; our ability to borrow and raise additional capital; the quantity of oil and gas that we can economically produce; revenues and profitability; and the accounting for our oil and gas activities. Any continued or extended decline in oil and gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and access to capital. Capital Budget for 2010 Our capital budget for 2010 is currently set at $950.0 million, excluding acquisitions. The 2010 capital budget is more than the 2009 capital spending levels with higher expected operating cash flows resulting from higher projected oil and gas prices and higher production. For 2010, we expect our cash flow and proceeds from asset sales to fund our capital budget. As has been our historical practice, we will periodically review our capital expenditures throughout the year and adjust the budget based on commodity prices, drilling success and other factors. Source of Our Revenues We derive our revenues from the sale of oil and gas that is produced from our properties. Revenues are a function of the volume produced, the prevailing market price at the time of sale, quality, Btu content and transportation costs to market. Production volumes and the price of oil and gas are the primary factors affecting our revenues. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to downward price fluctuations, we use derivative instruments to hedge future sales prices on a substantial, but varying, portion of our gas and oil production. The use of derivative instruments has in the past and may in the future, prevent us from realizing the full benefit of upward price movements but also protects us from declining price movements. Our average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements) include both the effects of the settlement of derivative contracts that are accounted for as hedges and the settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges. Principal Components of Our Cost Structure Direct Operating Expenses. These are day to day costs incurred to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market together with the daily costs incurred to maintain our producing properties. Such costs also include maintenance, repairs and workovers expenses related to our oil and gas properties. These costs, on an mcfe basis, are expected to continue to moderate in 2010. Direct operating expenses also include stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with grants of stock appreciation rights (SARs) and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. Production taxes are paid on produced oil and gas based on a percentage of market prices (not hedged prices) or at fixed rates established by federal, state or local taxing authorities. Ad valorem taxes are generally based on reserve values at the end of each year. Exploration Expenses. These are geological and geophysical costs, including payroll and benefits for the geological and geophysical staff, seismic costs, delay rentals and the costs of unsuccessful exploratory dry holes. Exploration expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with grants of SARs and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. General and Administrative Expenses. These costs include overhead, including payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, costs of managing our production and development operations, franchise taxes, audit and other professional fees and legal compliance. General and administrative expense includes stock based compensation expense (non cash) associated with grants of SARs and the amortization of restricted stock grants as part of employee compensation. Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties. This category includes unproved property impairment and costs associated with lease expirations. Interest. We typically finance a portion of our working capital requirements and acquisitions with borrowings under our bank credit facility and with our longer term debt securities. As a result, we incur interest expense that is affected by both fluctuations in interest rates and our financing decisions. We will likely continue to incur interest expense as we continue to grow. 31 Table of Contents Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization. This includes the systematic expensing of the capitalized costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop gas and oil. As a successful efforts company, we capitalize all costs associated with our acquisition and development efforts and all successful exploration efforts, and apportion these costs to each unit of production through depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. This expense also includes the systematic, monthly accretion of the future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. Income Taxes. We are subject to state and federal income taxes but are currently not in a tax paying position for federal income taxes, primarily due to the current deductibility of intangible drilling costs (IDC). We do pay some state income taxes where our IDC deductions do not exceed our taxable income or where state income taxes are determined on a basis other than federal taxable income. Currently, substantially all of our federal taxes are deferred, however, we anticipate using all of our net operating loss carryforwards and we will recognize current income tax expense and continue to recognize current tax expense as long as we are generating taxable income. For additional information, see Risk Factors Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation, in Item 1A of this report. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income and Operations Overview of 2009 Results During 2009, we achieved the following financial and operating results: achieved 13% production growth; achieved 18% reserve growth; drilled 285 net wells with a 99.6% success rate; continued expansion of key plays by growing production, proving up acreage and acquiring additional unproved acreage; maintained a strong balance sheet by retaining a debt to capitalization ratio of 42% and issuing $300 million of new senior subordinated notes; received proceeds of $234 million from asset sales; realized $592 million of cash flow from operating activities; and ended the year with stockholders equity of $2.4 billion. Our 2009 performance reflects another year of successfully executing our strategy of growth through drilling. During 2009, we did not make a material acquisition of proved reserves. Instead, we acquired unproved acreage, primarily in the Marcellus Shale. The business of exploring for, developing, and acquiring oil and gas is highly competitive and capital intensive. As in any commodity business, the costs associated with finding, acquiring, extracting, and financing our operations are critical to profitability and long term value creation for stockholders. As a result of the drop in commodity prices, we have increased our efforts on improving our operating efficiency. These efforts resulted in lower direct operating expense per mcfe for 2009 when compared to 2008. However, as we continue to expand our Marcellus Shale team to meet the needs of this developing asset, we have experienced upward pressure on our general and administrative costs per mcfe. To mitigate this trend, we closed our Gulf Coast division office effective November 1, 2009 with those operations being combined and operated out of the Southwest division in Fort Worth. We successfully faced other challenges in 2009, including accessing the capital markets to fund our growth on sufficiently favorable terms, continuing to introduce new extraction technologies into the Marcellus Shale and retaining qualified operational people despite our lower capital spending program. We began the year in the midst of a worldwide economic decline and have taken several steps to improve our liquidity (see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition Cash Flows and Liquidity). Our inventory of exploration and development prospects continues to provide new growth opportunities. We continue to believe that our portfolio of long lived assets positions us for future growth. Total revenues decreased 32% in 2009 over the same period of 2008. This decrease was due to lower realized oil and gas prices somewhat offset by higher production. Our 2009 production growth was due to the continued success of our drilling program. Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements) were 25% lower in 2009. As discussed in Item 1A of this report, significant changes in oil and gas prices can have a material impact on our balance sheet and our results of operations, including the fair value of our derivatives. 32 Table of Contents 2010 Outlook For 2010, the Board has approved a $950.0 million capital budget for oil and gas related activities, excluding proved property acquisitions. We expect to fund our 2010 capital budget expenditures with cash flows from operations and proceeds from asset sales. The price risk on a portion of our forecasted oil and gas production for 2010 is mitigated using commodity derivative contracts and we intend to continue to enter into these transactions. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production are largely based on current market prices, which are beyond our control. We announced our plan to offer for sale our tight gas sand properties in Ohio and the data room opened in January 2010. These properties include approximately 3,500 producing wells, 418,000 net acres of leasehold and 1,600 miles of pipeline and gathering system infrastructure. On February 8, 2010, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to sell these assets for a price of $330.0 million, subject to typical post closing adjustments. The completion of the sale is dependent upon prospective buyer due diligence procedures and there can be no assurance the sale will be completed. Oil and Gas Sales, Production and Realized Price Calculations Our oil and gas sales vary from year to year as a result of changes in realized commodity prices and production volumes. Hedges included in oil and gas sales reflect settlements on those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting. Cash settlement of derivative contracts that are not accounted for as hedges are included in the statement of operations in derivative fair value income (loss). Oil and gas sales decreased 32% from 2008 due to a 39% decrease in realized prices, partially offset by a 13% increase in production. Oil and gas sales in 2008 increased 42% from 2007 due to a 21% increase in production and an 17% increase in realized prices. The following table illustrates the primary components of oil and gas sales for each of the last three years (in thousands): 2009 2008 2007 Oil and Gas Sales Oil wellhead $ 140,577 $ 298,482 $ 226,686 Oil hedges realized 12,184 (72,135 ) (23,755 ) Total oil revenue $ 152,761 $ 226,347 $ 202,931 Gas wellhead $ 432,821 $ 923,160 $ 585,538 Gas hedges realized 190,934 8,561 27,916 Total gas revenue $ 623,755 $ 931,721 $ 613,454 Total NGL revenue $ 63,405 $ 68,492 $ 46,152 Combined wellhead $ 636,803 $ 1,290,134 $ 858,376 Combined hedges 203,118 (63,574 ) 4,161 Total oil and gas sales $ 839,921 $ 1,226,560 $ 862,537 Our production continues to grow through drilling success as we place new wells into production and through additions from acquisitions, partially offset by the natural decline of our oil and gas wells and asset sales. For 2009, our production volumes increased 28% in the Appalachian region and 4% in the Southwestern region. Crude oil production declined from 2008 primarily due to the sale of certain oil properties in West Texas. For 2008, our production volumes increased 18% in the Appalachian region, increased 22% in our Southwestern region and increased 61% in our Gulf Coast region. For 2007, our production volumes increased 15% in the Appalachian region, increased 28% in the Southwestern region and declined 17% in our Gulf Coast region. Our production for each of the last three years is set forth in the following table: 33 Table of Contents 2009 2008 2007 Production Crude oil (bbls) 2,556,879 3,084,529 3,359,668 NGLs (bbls) 2,186,999 1,385,701 1,114,730 Natural gas (mcf) 130,648,694 114,323,436 89,594,626 Total (mcfe) (a) 159,111,962 141,144,816 116,441,014 Average daily production Crude oil (bbls) 7,005 8,428 9,205 NGLs (bbls) 5,992 3,786 3,054 Natural gas (mcf) 357,942 312,359 245,465 Total (mcfe) (a) 435,923 385,642 319,016 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) received for oil and gas during 2009 was $6.44 per mcfe compared to $8.58 per mcfe in 2008 and $8.02 per mcfe in 2007. Our average realized price (including all derivative settlements) calculation includes all cash settlements for derivatives, whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Average price calculations for each of the last three years is shown below: 2009 2008 2007 Average Prices Average sales prices (wellhead): Crude oil (per bbl) $ 54.98 $ 96.77 $ 67.47 NGLs (per bbl) 28.99 49.43 41.40 Natural gas (per mcf) 3.32 8.07 6.54 Total (per mcfe) (a) 4.00 9.14 7.37 Average realized prices (including derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting): Crude oil (per bbl) 59.75 73.38 60.40 NGLs (per bbl) 28.99 49.43 41.40 Natural gas (per mcf) 4.77 8.15 6.85 Total (per mcfe) (a) 5.28 8.69 7.41 Average realized prices (including all derivative settlements): Crude oil (per bbl) 62.58 68.20 60.16 NGLs (per bbl) 28.99 49.43 41.40 Natural gas (per mcf) 6.13 8.15 7.66 Total (per mcfe) (a) 6.44 8.58 8.02 Average NYMEX prices (b): Crude oil (per bbl) 60.49 100.47 72.34 Natural gas (per mcf) 4.02 8.91 6.92 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. (b) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. Derivative fair value income (loss) was a gain of $66.4 million in 2009 compared to a gain of $71.9 million in 2008 and a loss of $9.5 million in 2007. Some of our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting and are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method whereby all realized and unrealized gains and losses related to these contracts are included in derivative fair value income (loss). Mark to market accounting treatment creates volatility in our revenues as unrealized gains and losses from derivatives are included in total revenues and are not included in our consolidated balance sheet in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As commodity prices increase or decrease, such changes will have an opposite effect on the mark to market value of our derivatives. Any gains on our derivatives will be offset by lower wellhead revenues in the future or any losses will be offset by higher wellhead revenues based on the value at the settlement date. At December 31, 2009, our derivative contracts are recorded at their fair value, which is a net asset of $10.9 million, a decrease of 34 Table of Contents $215.8 million from the $226.7 million asset recorded as of December 31, 2008. Most of the year end 2008 net asset was related to 2009 derivative contracts; therefore, this decrease is primarily related to the settlement of these contracts. We have also entered into basis swap agreements to limit volatility caused by changing differentials between index and regional prices received. These basis swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting purposes and are marked to market. Hedge ineffectiveness, also included in derivative fair value income (loss), is associated with contracts that qualify for hedge accounting. The ineffective portion is calculated as the difference between the change in the fair value of the derivative and the estimated change in future cash flows from item hedged. The following table presents information about the components of derivative fair value income (loss) for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2009 (in thousands): 2009 2008 2007 Change in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting (a) $ (115,909 ) $ 85,594 $ (80,495 ) Realized gain (loss) on settlements gas (b) (c) 171,998 (1,383 ) 71,098 Realized gain (loss) on settlements oil (b) (c) 7,304 (15,431 ) (244 ) Hedge ineffectiveness realized (c) 4,749 1,386 968 unrealized (a) (1,696 ) 1,696 (820 ) Derivative fair value income (loss) $ 66,446 $ 71,861 $ (9,493 ) (a) These amounts are unrealized and are not included in average sales price calculations. (b) These amounts represent realized gains and losses on settled derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. (c) These settlements are included in average realized price calculations (including all derivative settlements). Other revenue decreased in 2009 to $488,000 compared to $21.7 million in 2008 and $5.0 million in 2007. The 2009 period includes a $10.4 million gain on the sale of Marcellus acreage and a $3.8 million lawsuit settlement offset by a non cash loss from equity method investments of $13.7 million. The 2008 period includes a $20.2 million gain on the sale of assets and a non cash loss from equity method investments of $218,000. The 2007 period includes non cash income from equity method investments of $974,000 and other miscellaneous income. We believe some of our expense fluctuations are best analyzed on a unit of production, or per mcfe, basis. The following presents information about certain of our expenses on a per mcfe basis for 2009, 2008 and 2007. Year Ended Year Ended % % 2009 2008 Change Change 2008 2007 Change Change Direct operating expense $ 0.84 $ 1.01 $ (0.17 ) (17 %) $ 1.01 $ 0.92 $ 0.09 10 % Production and ad valorem tax expense 0.20 0.39 (0.19 ) (49 %) 0.39 0.36 0.03 8 % General and administrative expense 0.73 0.65 0.08 12 % 0.65 0.60 0.05 8 % Interest expense 0.74 0.71 0.03 4 % 0.71 0.67 0.04 6 % Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense 2.35 2.12 0.23 11 % 2.12 1.89 0.23 12 % Direct operating expense was $133.8 million in 2009 compared to $142.4 million in 2008 and $107.5 million in 2007. We experience increases in operating expenses as we add new wells and maintain production from existing properties. In 2009, this effect was more than offset by lower overall industry costs, lower workover expenses and asset sales. On an absolute dollar basis, our spending for direct operating expenses is lower when compared to 2008 despite higher production levels reflecting cost containment measures and lower overall industry costs. We incurred $6.5 million of workover costs in 2009 compared to $9.9 million in 2008 and $7.1 million in 2007. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expense for 2009 decreased $0.17 or 17% from the same period of 2008 with the decrease consisting primarily of lower workover costs ($0.03 per mcfe), lower utility costs ($0.02 per mcfe), lower well service costs, asset sales and our focus on cost containment. On a per mcfe basis, direct operating expenses for 2008 increased $0.09 or 10% from the same period of 2007 with the increase consisting primarily of higher workover costs ($0.01 per mcfe), higher personnel and related costs ($0.02 per mcfe) along with higher equipment leasing costs ($0.02 per mcfe) and higher overall industry costs. Stock based compensation expense represents the amortization of restricted stock grants and SARs as part of employee compensation. The following table summarizes direct operating expenses per mcfe for 2009, 2008 and 2007: 35 Table of Contents Year Ended Year Ended % % 2009 2008 Change Change 2008 2007 Change Change Lease operating expense $ 0.78 $ 0.92 $ (0.14 ) (15 %) $ 0.92 $ 0.84 $ 0.08 10 % Workovers 0.04 0.07 (0.03 ) (43 %) 0.07 0.06 0.01 17 % Stock based compensation (non cash) 0.02 0.02 % 0.02 0.02 % Total direct operating expenses $ 0.84 $ 1.01 $ (0.17 ) (17 %) $ 1.01 $ 0.92 $ 0.09 10 % Production and ad valorem taxes are paid based on market prices and not hedged prices. These costs were $32.2 million in 2009 compared to $55.2 million in 2008 and $42.4 million in 2007. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes decreased to $0.20 in 2009 from $0.39 in 2008 due to a 56% decrease in pre hedge prices. On a per mcfe basis, production and ad valorem taxes increased to $0.39 in 2008 from $0.36 in the same period of 2007 primarily due to a 24% increase in pre hedge prices. General and administrative expense was $116.7 million for 2009 compared to $92.3 million in 2008 and $69.7 million in 2007. The 2009 increase of $24.4 million when compared to the prior year is due primarily to higher salaries and benefits ($11.7 million) due to an increase in the number of employees (4%) and salary increases, higher stock based compensation ($9.7 million), higher legal fees and office expenses, including rent and information technology. 2009 also includes $1.0 million ($0.01 per mcfe) accrued severance costs and $1.4 million ($0.01 per mcfe) bad debt expense. The 2008 increase of $22.6 million when compared to 2007 is due primarily to higher salaries and benefits ($12.0 million) due to an increase in the number of employees (14%) and salary increases, higher stock based compensation ($5.6 million), higher legal and professional fees ($921,000), an allowance for bad debt expense of $450,000 and higher office expenses, including rent and information technology. Our personnel costs continue to increase as we invest in our technical teams and other staffing to support our expansion into the Marcellus Shale in Appalachia. Stock based compensation expense represents the amortization of restricted stock grants and SARs to our employees and directors as part of compensation. The following table summarizes general and administrative expenses per mcfe for 2009, 2008 and 2007: Year Ended Year Ended % % 2009 2008 Change Change 2008 2007 Change Change General and administrative $ 0.52 $ 0.48 $ 0.04 8 % $ 0.48 $ 0.44 $ 0.04 9 % Stock based compensation (non cash) 0.21 0.17 0.04 24 % 0.17 0.16 0.01 6 % Total general and administrative expenses $ 0.73 $ 0.65 $ 0.08 12 % $ 0.65 $ 0.60 $ 0.05 8 % Interest expense was $117.4 million for 2009 compared to $99.7 million in 2008 and $77.7 million in 2007. Interest expense for 2009 increased $17.6 million from the same period of 2008 due to the refinancing of certain debt from floating rates to higher fixed rates and higher average debt balances. In May 2009, we issued $300.0 million of 8% senior subordinated notes due 2019, which added $15.1 million of additional interest costs in 2009. The proceeds from this issuance was used to retire bank debt, which carried a lower interest rate. Interest expense for 2008 increased $22.0 million from the same period of 2007 due to the refinancing of certain debt from floating rates to higher fixed rates along with higher overall debt balances. In September 2007, we issued $250.0 million of 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017, which added $13.9 million of additional interest costs in 2008. In May 2008, we issued $250.0 million of 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2018, which added $11.8 million of interest costs in 2008. The proceeds from both issuances were used to retire bank debt which carried a lower interest rate. The 2008 and 2009 note issuances were undertaken to better match the maturities of our debt with the life of our properties and to give us greater liquidity for the near term. Average debt outstanding on the bank credit facility for 2009 was $584.5 million compared to $494.2 million for 2008 and $417.6 million for 2007 and the weighted average interest rate was 2.4% in 2009 compared to 4.4% in 2008 and 6.4% in 2007. Depletion, depreciation and amortization (DDA) was $374.4 million in 2009 compared to $299.8 million in 2008 and $220.6 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 compared to 2008 is due to a 13% increase in production, 6% increase in depletion rates and accelerated depreciation expense of $10.3 million on an interim processing plant in Appalachia that will be dismantled in the first quarter of 2010. The increase in 2008 compared to the same period of 2007 is due to a 21% increase in production and a 14% increase in depletion rates. On a per mcfe basis, DDA increased to $2.35 in 2009 compared to $2.12 in 2008 and $1.89 in 2007. Depletion expense, the largest component of DDA, was $2.11 per mcfe in 2009 compared to $1.99 per mcfe in 2008 and $1.74 per mcfe in 2007. We have historically adjusted our depletion rates in the fourth quarter of each year based on the year end reserve report and other times during the year when circumstances indicate there has been a significant change in reserves or costs. In areas where we are actively drilling, such as the Marcellus and Barnett Shale areas, fourth quarter 2009 depletion rates are lower than 2008. Depletion rates in new plays tend to be higher in the beginning as 36 Table of Contents increased initial outlays are amortized over proved reserves based on early stages of evaluations. The increase in DDA per mcfe is related to the accelerated depreciation expense on an interim processing plant ($0.06) and the mix of our production. The following table summarizes DDA expense per mcfe for 2009, 2008 and 2007: Year Ended Year Ended % % 2009 2008 Change Change 2008 2007 Change Change Depletion and amortization $ 2.11 $ 1.99 $ 0.12 6 % $ 1.99 $ 1.74 $ 0.25 14 % Depreciation 0.20 0.09 0.11 122 % 0.09 0.09 % Accretion and other 0.04 0.04 % 0.04 0.06 (0.02 ) (33 %) Total DDA expense $ 2.35 $ 2.12 $ 0.23 11 % $ 2.12 $ 1.89 $ 0.23 12 % Other Operating Expenses Our total operating expenses also include other expenses that generally do not trend with production. These expenses include stock based compensation, exploration expense, abandonment and impairment of unproved properties and deferred compensation plan expenses. In 2009, stock based compensation was a component of direct operating expense ($2.6 million), exploration expense ($4.8 million) and general and administrative expense ($33.5 million) for a total of $41.8 million. In 2008, stock based compensation was a component of direct operating expense ($2.8 million), exploration expense ($4.1 million) and general and administrative expense ($23.8 million) for a total of $31.2 million. In 2007, stock based compensation was a component of direct operating expense ($1.8 million), exploration expense ($3.5 million) and general and administrative expense ($18.2 million) for a total of $24.0 million. Stock based compensation includes the amortization of restricted stock grants and SARs grants. These costs are increasing due to increasing grant date fair values and an increase in the number of grants on our increasing employee base. Exploration expense was $46.9 million in 2009 compared to $67.7 million in 2008 and $45.8 million in 2007. The following table details our exploration related expenses for 2009, 2008 and 2007. Exploration expense was significantly lower in 2009 when compared to 2008 due to our focus on development of our large shale and coal bed methane projects and the closure of our Gulf Coast office. The increase in exploration expense from 2007 to 2008 reflects higher seismic and personnel costs due, in part, to the early stages of the Marcellus Shale development. The following table details our exploration related expenses for 2009, 2008 and 2007 (in thousands): Year Ended Year Ended % % 2009 2008 Change Change 2008 2007 Change Change Dry hole expense $ 2,160 $ 13,371 $ (11,211 ) (84 %) $ 13,371 $ 17,586 $ (4,215 ) (24 %) Seismic 21,995 30,645 (8,650 ) (28 %) 30,645 10,933 19,712 180 % Personnel expense 11,043 11,804 (761 ) (6 %) 11,804 8,924 2,880 32 % Stock based compensation expense 4,817 4,130 687 17 % 4,130 3,473 657 19 % Delay rentals and other 6,884 7,740 (856 ) (11 %) 7,740 4,866 2,874 59 % Total exploration expense $ 46,899 $ 67,690 $ (20,791 ) (31 %) $ 67,690 $ 45,782 $ 21,908 48 % Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties was $113.5 million in 2009 compared to $47.4 million in 2008 and $11.2 million in 2007. Impairment of a significant portion of our unproved properties is assessed and amortized on an aggregate basis based on our average holding period, expected forfeiture rate and anticipated drilling success. This increase is primarily due to the significant increase in lease acquisition costs over the past three years and increased leasing activity in new areas that require several years to delineate along with lower oil and gas prices which resulted in reduced drilling activity. As we continue to review our acreage positions and high grade our drilling inventory based on the current price environment, additional leasehold impairments and abandonments will likely be recorded. Deferred compensation plan expense was a loss of $31.1 million in 2009 compared to a gain of $24.7 million in 2008 and a loss of $35.4 million in 2007. Our stock price increased to $49.85 at December 31, 2009 compared to $34.39 at December 31, 2008. This non cash expense relates to the increase or decrease in value of the liability associated with our common stock that is vested and held in our deferred compensation plan. The deferred compensation liability is adjusted to fair value by a charge or a credit to deferred compensation plan expense. The year ended 2008 decreased $60.1 million from the same period of 2007 due to a decline in our stock price, which decreased from $51.36 at December 31, 2007 to $34.39 at December 31, 2008. During 2007, our stock price increased from $27.46 at December 31, 2006 to $51.36 at December 31, 2007. 37 Table of Contents Income tax (benefit) expense was a benefit of $4.9 million in 2009 compared to expense of $193.8 million in 2008 and expense of $96.3 million in 2007. The 2009 decrease reflects a 111% decrease in income from continuing operations compared to the same period of 2008. The year ended 2009 also includes an unfavorable $16.3 million charge to reflect updated state tax rates used in establishing deferred taxes due to a change in our state apportionment factors to higher rate states, particularly in Pennsylvania due to our increased focus on development of the Marcellus Shale along with increased proved reserves and acreage in Pennsylvania. 2009 provides for tax expenses at an effective tax rate of 8.3% compared to an effective tax rate in 2008 of 35.6%. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the current income tax benefit of $636,000 includes state income taxes of $364,000 and a federal income tax benefit of $1.0 million. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was different than the statutory rate of 35% due to an increase in our state apportionment factors in certain higher rate states, offset by a benefit related to a partial release of valuation allowance on our capital loss carryforward. Income tax expense for 2008 increased to $193.8 million, reflecting a 118% increase in income from continuing operations before taxes compared to the same period of 2007. 2008 provided for tax expenses at an effective rate of 35.6% compared to an effective rate of 38.5% in the same period of 2007. For 2008, current income taxes of $4.3 million include state income taxes of $3.3 million and $1.0 million of federal income taxes. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was different than the statutory rate of 35% due to state income taxes. Income tax expense for 2007 decreased to $96.3 million, reflecting a 22% decrease in income from continuing operations before taxes compared to the same period of 2006. The year ended December 31, 2007 provided for tax expense at an effective rate of 38.5%. For the year ended December 31, 2007, current income taxes includes state income taxes of $449,000 and a benefit of $129,000 of federal income taxes. We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 38% for 2010. Discontinued operations in 2007 include the operating results related to our Gulf of Mexico properties and Austin Chalk properties sold in first quarter 2007. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Our main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, a bank credit facility with both uncommitted and committed availability, asset sales and access to the debt and equity capital markets. In a continuing effort to mitigate the effect of the deterioration in the capital markets and the decline in oil and gas commodity prices which began in mid 2008, we took additional measures in 2009 to enhance our liquidity. In May 2009, we issued $300.0 million of 8.0% senior subordinated notes due 2019, at a discount. We used the $285.2 million of proceeds received from the issuance of these senior subordinated notes to repay outstanding bank debt, increasing the availability of our credit line. Also in 2009, we entered into commodity derivative contracts covering 108.5 Bcf of gas and 0.4 million barrels of oil. These contracts expire through December 2011. We also sold oil and gas properties in West Texas and New York for $218.1 million with the proceeds used to repay outstanding bank debt. Our 2009 capital spending was significantly reduced in all areas except our Marcellus Shale operations. As part of our semi annual bank review completed September 30, 2009, our borrowing base and facility amounts were reaffirmed at $1.5 billion and $1.25 billion. The borrowing base represents the amount approved by the bank group that can be borrowed based on our assets and liabilities while the bank commitment (or facility amount) is the amount the banks have committed to fund pursuant to the credit agreement. During 2009, our net cash provided from continuing operations of $591.7 million and proceeds from the sale of assets of $234.1 million were used to fund $720.0 million of capital expenditures (including acquisitions and equity investments). At December 31, 2009, we had $767,000 in cash and total assets of $5.4 billion. Our debt to capitalization ratio was 42%. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our total debt and capitalization were as follows (in thousands): 2009 2008 Bank debt $ 324,000 $ 693,000 Senior subordinated notes and other 1,383,833 1,097,668 Total debt 1,707,833 1,790,668 Stockholders equity 2,378,589 2,451,343 Total capitalization $ 4,086,422 $ 4,242,011 Debt to capitalization ratio 41.8 % 42.2 % Long term debt at December 31, 2009 totaled $1.7 billion, including $324.0 million of bank credit facility debt and $1.4 billion of senior subordinated notes. Our available committed borrowing capacity at December 31, 2009 was $925.9 million. Cash is required to fund capital expenditures necessary to offset inherent declines in production and reserves that are typical in the oil and gas industry. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on capital resources available and the success of finding or acquiring additional reserves. We currently believe that net cash generated from operating activities and unused committed borrowing capacity under the bank credit facility combined with our oil and gas 38 Table of Contents price hedges currently in place will be adequate to satisfy near term financial obligations and liquidity needs. However, long term cash flows are subject to a number of variables including the level of production and prices as well as various economic conditions that have historically affected the oil and gas business. A material drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production and reserves would reduce our ability to fund capital expenditures, reduce debt, meet financial obligations and remain profitable. We operate in an environment with numerous financial and operating risks, including, but not limited to, the inherent risks of the search for, development and production of oil and gas, the ability to buy properties and sell production at prices which provide an attractive return and the highly competitive nature of the industry. Our ability to expand our reserve base is, in part, dependent on obtaining sufficient capital through internal cash flow, bank borrowings, asset sales or the issuance of debt or equity securities. There can be no assurance that internal cash flow and other capital sources will provide sufficient funds to maintain capital expenditures that we believe are necessary to offset inherent declines in production and proven reserves. Our opinions concerning liquidity and our ability to avail ourselves in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward looking statements are based on currently available information. If this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely affected. Factors that affect the availability of financing include our performance, the state of the worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the global financial climate and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the level of our working capital or outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies. For additional information, see Risk Factors Difficult Conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in Item 1A of this report. Credit Arrangements We maintain a $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which we refer to as our bank debt or our bank credit facility. The bank credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets and matures on October 25, 2012. Availability under the bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base set by the lenders semi annually with an option to set more often in certain circumstances. The borrowing base is dependent on a number of factors but primarily the lenders assessment of future cash flows. Redeterminations of the borrowing base require approval of 2/3rds of the lenders; increases require unanimous approval. At February 19, 2010, the bank credit facility had a $1.5 billion borrowing base and a $1.25 billion facility amount. Remaining credit availability was $880.0 million on February 19, 2010. Our bank group is comprised of twenty six commercial banks, with no one bank holding more than 5.0% of the bank credit facility. We believe our large number of banks and relatively low commitment levels allows for sufficient lending capacity should we elect to increase our $1.25 billion commitment up to the $1.5 billion borrowing base and also allows for flexibility should there be additional consolidation within the banking sector. Our bank debt and our subordinated notes impose limitations on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments (as defined under the debt agreements for our bank debt and our subordinated notes). The debt agreements also contain customary covenants relating to debt incurrence, working capital, dividends and financial ratios. We were in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2009. Cash Flow Cash flows from operations are primarily affected by production volumes and commodity prices, net of the effects of settlements of our derivatives. Our cash flows from operations also are impacted by changes in working capital. We generally maintain low cash and cash equivalent balances because we use available funds to reduce our bank debt. Short term liquidity needs are satisfied by borrowings under our bank credit facility. Because of this, and since our principal source of operating cash flows (or proved reserves to be produced in the following year) cannot be reported as working capital, we often have low or negative working capital. We sell substantially all of our oil and gas production at the wellhead under floating market contracts. However, we generally hedge a substantial, but varying portion of our anticipated future oil and gas production for the next 12 to 24 months. Any payments due to counterparties under our derivative contracts should ultimately be funded by prices received from the sale of our production. Production receipts, however, often lag payments to the counterparties. Any interim cash needs are funded by borrowing under the credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, we have entered into hedging agreements covering 90.7 Bcfe for 2010 and 20.1 Bcfe for 2011. Net cash provided from continuing operations in 2009 was $591.7 million compared to $824.8 million in 2008 and $632.1 million in 2007. Cash provided from operations is largely dependent upon commodity prices and production, net of the effects of settlement of our derivative contracts. The decrease in cash provided from operating activities from 2008 to 2009 reflects lower price realizations (a decline of 25%) somewhat offset by a 13% increase in production. The increase in cash provided by operating activities from 2007 to 2008 was primarily due to increased production from acquisitions and development activity and higher price realizations. As of December 31, 2009, we have hedged approximately 51% of our projected 2010 production and 9% of our projected 2011 production. Net cash provided from continuing operations is also 39 Table of Contents affected by working capital changes or the timing of cash receipts and disbursements. Changes in working capital (as reflected in our consolidated statement of cash flows) for 2009 was a negative $44.8 million compared to a positive $20.2 million in 2008 and a negative $13.0 million in 2007. Net cash used in investing activities in 2009 was $473.8 million compared to $1.7 billion in 2008 and $1.0 billion in 2007. During 2009, we: spent $541.2 million on oil and gas property additions; spent $139.3 million on acreage primarily in the Marcellus Shale; received proceeds of $234.1 million primarily from the sale of West Texas and New York oil and gas properties; and contributed $6.4 million of capital to Nora Gathering, LLC, an equity method investment. During 2008, we: spent $881.9 million on oil and gas property additions; spent $834.8 million on acquisitions, including the purchase of producing and unproved Barnett Shale properties and Marcellus Shale leasehold; contributed $29.0 million of capital to Nora Gathering, LLC, an equity method investment; and received proceeds of $68.2 million primarily from the sale of East Texas oil and gas properties. During 2007, we: spent $782.4 million on oil and gas property additions; spent $336.5 on acquisitions including acquiring additional interests in the Nora field in Virginia; spent $94.7 million for a 50% membership interest in Nora Gathering, LLC, an equity method investment; and received proceeds of $234.3 million primarily from the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets and Austin Chalk properties. Net cash (used in) provided from financing activities in 2009 was ($117.9 million), compared to $903.7 million in 2008 and $379.9 million in 2007. Historically, sources of financing have been primarily bank borrowings and capital raised through equity and debt offerings. During 2009, we: borrowed $707.0 million and repaid $1.1 billion under our bank credit facility, ending the year with $369 million lower bank debt; and issued $300.0 million aggregate principal amounts of our 8% senior subordinated notes due 2019, at a discount. During 2008, we: borrowed $1.5 billion and repaid $1.1 billion under our bank credit facility, ending the year with $390 million higher bank debt; and issued $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2018; and received proceeds of $282.2 million from a common stock offering. During 2007, we: borrowed $865.0 million and repaid $1.0 billion under our bank credit facility, ending the year with $149 million lower bank debt; and issued $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017; and received proceeds of $280.4 million from a common stock offering. 40 Table of Contents Capital Requirements Our primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, repayment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and payment of dividends. During 2009, $601.7 million of capital was expended on drilling projects. Also in 2009, $139.3 million was expended on acquisitions of unproved acreage, primarily in the Marcellus Shale. In addition, 744,000 shares of stock were issued in exchange for Marcellus Shale unproved acreage. Our 2009 capital program, excluding acquisitions, was funded by net cash flow from operations, proceeds from asset sales and issuance of equity. Our capital expenditure budget for 2010 is currently set at $950.0 million, excluding acquisitions. Development and exploration activities are highly discretionary, and, for the near term, we expect such activities to be maintained at levels equal to internal cash flow and asset sales. To the extent capital requirements exceed internal cash flow and proceeds from asset sales, debt or equity may be issued to fund these requirements. We currently believe we have sufficient liquidity and cash flow to meet our obligations for the next twelve months; however, a continued drop in oil and gas prices or a reduction in production or reserves could adversely affect our ability to fund capital expenditures and meet our financial obligations. We monitor our capital expenditures on a regular basis, adjusting the amount up or down and also between our operating regions, depending on commodity prices, cash flow and projected returns. Also, our obligations may change due to acquisitions, divestitures and continued growth. We may issue additional shares of stock, subordinated notes or other debt securities to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, extend maturities or to repay debt. Cash Dividend Payments The amount of future dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and primarily depends on cash flow and capital expenditures. In 2009, we paid $25.2 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in each quarter). In 2008, we paid $24.6 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in each quarter). In 2007, we paid $19.1 million in dividends to our common shareholders ($0.04 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.03 per share in the third, second and first quarters). Cash Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations include long term debt, operating leases, drilling commitments, derivative obligations, asset retirement obligations and transportation commitments. As of December 31, 2009, we do not have any capital leases nor have we entered into any material long term contracts for equipment. As of December 31, 2009, we do not have any significant off balance sheet debt or other such unrecorded obligations and we have not guaranteed the debt of any unrelated party. As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of $100,000 of letters of credit outstanding under our bank credit facility. The table below provides estimates of the timing of future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place at December 31, 2009. In addition to the contractual obligations listed on the table below, our balance sheet at December 31, 2009 reflects accrued interest payable on our bank debt of $985,000 which is payable in first quarter 2010. We expect to make interest payments of $9.6 million per year on our 6.375% senior subordinated notes, $14.8 million per year on our 7.375% senior subordinated notes, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016, $18.8 million per year on our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017, $18.1 million per year on our 7.25% senior subordinated notes and $24.0 million per year on our 8% senior subordinated notes. The following summarizes our contractual financial obligations at December 31, 2009 and their future maturities. We expect to fund these contractual obligations with cash generated from operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility, additional debt issuances and proceeds from asset sales (in thousands). 41 Table of Contents Payment due by period 2013 2010 2011 2012 and 2014 Thereafter Total Bank debt due 2012 $ $ $ 324,000 (a) $ $ $ 324,000 7.375% senior subordinated notes due 2013 200,000 200,000 6.375% senior subordinated notes due 2015 150,000 150,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2016 250,000 250,000 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2017 250,000 250,000 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2018 250,000 250,000 8.0% senior subordinated notes due 2019 300,000 300,000 Operating leases 11,514 9,752 5,885 6,130 6,652 39,933 Drilling rig commitments 57,916 58,400 39,163 484 155,963 Transportation commitments 36,062 35,836 32,913 60,471 207,583 372,865 Seismic agreements 19 20 5 44 Derivative obligations (b) 14,488 271 14,759 Asset retirement obligation liability (c) 2,446 559 8,499 3,740 63,568 78,812 Total contractual obligations (d) $ 122,445 $ 104,838 $ 410,465 $ 270,825 $ 1,477,803 $ 2,386,376 (a) Due at termination date of our bank credit facility. We expect to renew our bank credit facility, but there is no assurance that can be accomplished. Interest paid on our bank credit facility would be approximately $6.9 million each year assuming no change in the interest rate or outstanding balance. (b) Derivative obligations represent net open derivative contracts valued as of December 31, 2009. While such payments will be funded by higher prices received from the sale of our production, production receipts may be received after our payments to counterparties, which can result in borrowings under our bank credit facility. (c) The ultimate settlement and timing cannot be precisely determined in advance. (d) This table excludes the liability for the deferred compensation plans since these obligations will be funded with existing plan assets. In addition to the amounts included in the above table, we have contracted with several pipeline companies through 2027 to deliver natural gas production volumes in Appalachia from certain Marcellus Shale wells. The agreements call for total incremental increases of 402,000 Mmbtu per day over the 100,000 Mmbtu per day at December 31, 2009. These increases, which are contingent on certain pipeline modifications, are for 30,000 Mmbtu per day in March 2010, 72,000 Mmbtu per day in July 2010, 150,000 Mmbtu per day in November 2011 and an additional 150,000 Mmbtu per day for November 2012. Delivery Commitments Under a sales agreement, we have an obligation to deliver 30,000 Mmbtu per day of volume at various delivery points within the Barnett Shale basin. The contract, which began in 2008, extends for five years ending March 2013. As of December 31, 2009, remaining volumes to be delivered under this commitment are approximately 35.6 Bcf. Our proved reserves in the Barnett Shale are sufficient to fulfill these delivery commitments. Hedging Oil and Gas Prices We use commodity based derivative contracts to manage exposures to commodity price fluctuations. We do not enter into these arrangements for speculative or trading purposes. We do not utilize complex derivatives such as swaptions, knockouts or extendable swaps. We typically utilize commodity swap and collar contracts to (1) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities we produce and sell and (2) support our annual capital budget and expenditure plans. While there is a risk that the financial benefit of rising oil and gas prices may not be captured, we believe the benefits of stable and predictable cash flow are more important. Among these benefits are a more efficient utilization of existing personnel and planning for future staff additions, the flexibility to enter into long term projects requiring substantial committed capital, smoother and more efficient execution of our ongoing development drilling and production enhancement programs, more consistent returns on invested capital, and better access to bank and other credit markets. At December 31, 2009, we had collars covering 108.5 Bcf of gas at weighted average floor and cap prices of $5.62 to $7.39 and 0.4 million barrels of oil at weighted average floor and cap prices of $75.00 to $93.75. Their fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized or payable on termination, based on a comparison of the contract price and a reference price, generally NYMEX, approximated a pretax gain of $28.7 million at December 31, 2009. The contracts expire monthly through December 2011. 42 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Average Hedge Price Natural Gas 2010 Collars 242,356 Mmbtu/day $5.53$7.37 2011 Collars 55,000 Mmbtu/day $6.00$7.50 Crude Oil 2010 Collars 1,000 bbls/day $75.00$93.75 In addition to the collars above, we have entered into basis swap agreements. The price we receive for our production can be less than NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net unrealized pre tax loss of $17.8 million at December 31, 2009. Interest Rates At December 31, 2009, we had $1.7 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $1.4 billion bears interest at fixed rates averaging 7.4%. Bank debt totaling $324.0 million bears interest at floating rates, which averaged 2.1% at year end 2009. The 30 day LIBOR rate on December 31, 2009 was 0.2%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2009 would cost us approximately $3.2 million in additional annual interest expense. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently utilize any off balance sheet arrangements with unconsolidated entities to enhance our liquidity or capital resource position, or for any other purpose. However, as is customary in the oil and gas industry, we have various contractual work commitments as described above under cash contractual obligations. Inflation and Changes in Prices Our revenues, the value of our assets and our ability to obtain bank loans or additional capital on attractive terms have been and will continue to be affected by changes in oil and gas prices and the costs to produce our reserves. Oil and gas prices are subject to significant fluctuations that are beyond our ability to control or predict. Although certain of our costs and expenses are affected by general inflation, inflation does not normally have a significant effect on our business. In a trend that began in 2004 and accelerated through the middle of 2008, commodity prices for oil and gas increased significantly. The higher prices led to increased activity in the industry and, consequently, rising costs. These cost trends put pressure on our operating costs and also on our capital costs. Due to the decline in commodity prices that began in the last half of 2008 and continued into 2009, costs moderated in 2009. We expect costs in 2010 to continue to be a function of supply and demand. 43 Table of Contents The following table indicates the average oil and gas prices received over the last five years and quarterly for 2009, 2008 and 2007. Average price calculations exclude all derivative settlements whether or not they qualify for hedge accounting. Oil is converted to natural gas equivalent at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf. Average Sales Prices (Wellhead) Average NYMEX Prices (a) Crude Natural Equivalent Crude Natural Oil Gas Mcf Oil Gas (Per bbl) (Per mcf) (Per mcfe) (Per bbl) (Per mcf) Annual 2009 $ 54.98 $ 3.32 $ 4.00 $ 60.49 $ 4.02 2008 96.77 8.07 9.14 100.47 8.91 2007 67.47 6.54 7.37 72.34 6.92 2006 62.36 6.59 7.25 66.22 7.26 2005 53.30 8.00 7.99 56.56 8.55 Quarterly 2009 First $ 38.89 $ 3.82 $ 4.06 $ 43.20 $ 4.86 Second 54.62 2.72 3.53 59.77 3.59 Third 63.38 2.87 3.67 68.18 3.41 Fourth 67.96 3.84 4.71 76.12 4.26 2008 First $ 94.65 $ 7.85 $ 8.96 $ 97.90 $ 8.07 Second 120.27 10.09 11.48 123.98 10.80 Third 113.91 9.72 10.90 117.83 10.08 Fourth 55.09 4.86 5.43 58.79 6.82 2007 First $ 56.01 $ 6.41 $ 6.88 $ 58.27 $ 6.96 Second 62.20 6.95 7.57 65.03 7.56 Third 70.51 5.97 7.01 75.38 6.13 Fourth 82.12 6.80 7.94 90.68 7.03 (a) Based on average of bid week prompt month prices. Credit Ratings We receive credit ratings from Standard Poors Ratings Group, Inc. (SP) and Moodys Investor Services, Inc. (Moodys), which are subject to regular reviews. SPs corporate rating for us is BB with a stable outlook. Moodys corporate rating for us is Ba2 with a stable outlook. We believe that SP and Moodys consider many factors in determining our ratings including: production growth opportunities, liquidity, debt levels, asset, and proved reserve mix. We also believe that the rating agencies take into consideration our size, corporate structure, the complexity of our capital structure and organization, and history of how we have chosen to finance our growth. We believe that our single line of business, and practice of funding our growth with a balanced mix of long term debt and common equity positively impact our ratings. In addition to qualitative and quantitative factors unique to Range, we believe that the rating agencies consider various macro economic factors such as the projected future price of oil and gas, trends in industry service costs, and global supply and demand for energy. Based upon the factors influencing our credit ratings which are within our control, we are currently not aware of any reason why our credit rating would change materially from the present ratings. A reduction in our debt ratings could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing or the interest rate, fees and other terms associated with such additional financing. 44 Table of Contents Managements Discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year and proved oil and gas reserves. Some accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties to such an extent there is a reasonable likelihood that materially different amounts could have been reported under different conditions, or if different assumptions had been used. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on a regular basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used. Certain accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (a) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the level of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to changes; and (b) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Oil and Gas Properties We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities. Unsuccessful exploration drilling costs are expensed and can have a significant effect on reported operating results. Successful exploration drilling costs and all development costs are capitalized and systematically charged to expense using the units of production method based on proved developed oil and gas reserves as estimated by our engineers and reviewed by independent engineers. Costs incurred for exploratory wells that find reserves that cannot yet be classified as proved are capitalized on our balance sheet if (a) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and (b) we are making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Proven property leasehold costs are amortized to expense using the units of production method based on total proved reserves. Properties are assessed for impairment as circumstances warrant (at least annually) and impairments to value are charged to expense. The successful efforts method inherently relies upon the estimation of proved reserves, which includes proved developed and proved undeveloped volumes. Proved reserves are defined by the SEC as those volumes of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed reserves are volumes expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Although our engineers are knowledgeable of and follow the guidelines for reserves established by the SEC, including the recent rule revisions designed to modernize the oil and gas company reserves reporting requirements which we adopted effective December 31, 2009, the estimation of reserves requires engineers to make a significant number of assumptions based on professional judgment. Reserve estimates are updated at least annually and consider recent production levels and other technical information. Estimated reserves are often subject to future revisions, which could be substantial, based on the availability of additional information, including: reservoir performance, new geological and geophysical data, additional drilling, technological advancements, price and cost changes and other economic factors. Changes in oil and gas prices can lead to a decision to start up or shut in production, which can lead to revisions to reserve quantities. Reserve revisions in turn cause adjustments in the depletion rates used by us. We cannot predict what reserve revisions may be required in future periods. Reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering who reports directly to our President. For additional discussion, see Proved Reserves, in Item 2 of this report. To further ensure the reliability of our reserve estimates, we engage independent petroleum consultants to review our estimates of proved reserves. Independent petroleum consultants reviewed 88% of our reserves in 2009 compared to 87% in 2008 and 86% in 2007. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. The reserves included in this report are those reserves estimated by our employees and were based on a 12 month average commodity price in accordance with SEC rules. Depletion rates are determined based on reserve quantity estimates and the capitalized costs of producing properties. As the estimated reserves are adjusted, the depletion expense for a property will change, assuming no change in production volumes or the capitalized costs. While total depletion expense for the life of a property is limited to the propertys total cost, proved reserve revisions result in a change in timing when depletion expense is recognized. Downward revisions of proved reserves result in an acceleration of depletion expense, while upward revisions tend to lower the rate of depletion expense recognition. Based on proved reserves at December 31, 2009, we estimate that a 1% change in proved reserves would increase or decrease 2010 depletion expense by approximately $33.6 million (assuming a 12% production increase). Estimated reserves are used as the basis for calculating the expected future cash flows from a property, which are used to determine whether that property may be impaired. Reserves are also used to estimate the supplemental disclosure of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil and gas producing activities and reserve quantities in Note 20 to our consolidated financial 45 Table of Contents statements. Changes in the estimated reserves are considered a change in estimate for accounting purposes and are reflected on a prospective basis. We adopted the new SEC accounting and disclosure regulations for oil and gas companies effective December 31, 2009 which will be accounted for prospectively. We estimate the effect of this change in estimate was an increase to depletion, depreciation and amortization expense in fourth quarter 2009 of approximately $3.4 million primarily due to lower prices reflected in our estimated reserves. We monitor our long lived assets recorded in oil and gas properties in our consolidated balance sheet to ensure they are fairly presented. We must evaluate our properties for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset could exceed its fair value. A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these evaluations since the results are based on estimated future events. Such events include a projection of future oil and gas sales prices, an estimate of the ultimate amount of recoverable oil and gas reserves that will be produced from a field, the timing of future production, future production costs, future abandonment costs, and future inflation. The need to test a property for impairment can be based on several factors, including a significant reduction in sales prices for oil and or gas, unfavorable adjustments to reserves, physical damage to production equipment and facilities, a change in costs, or other changes to contracts or environmental regulations. All of these factors must be considered when testing a propertys carrying value for impairment. The review is done by determining if the historical cost of proved properties less the applicable accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization is less than the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows. The expected future net cash flows are estimated based on our plans to produce and develop reserves. Expected future net cash inflow from the sale of production of reserves is calculated based on estimated future prices and estimated operating and development costs. We estimate prices based upon market related information including published futures prices. The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions surrounding future levels of prices and costs, field decline rates, market demand and supply, the economic and regulatory climates. When the carrying value exceeds the sum of future net cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the estimated fair market value (as determined by discounted future net cash flows using a discount rate similar to market participants) and the carrying value of the asset. We cannot predict whether impairment charges may be required in the future. Our historical impairment of producing properties has been $930,000 in 2009, $74.9 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2004, $31.1 million in 2001, $29.9 million in 1999 and $214.7 million in 1998. We believe that a sensitivity analysis regarding the effect of changes in assumptions on estimated impairment is impractical to provide because of the number of assumptions and variables involved which have interdependent effects on the potential outcome. We are required to develop estimates of fair value to allocate purchase prices paid to acquire businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price paid to acquire a business is allocated to its assets and liabilities based on the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. We use all available information to make these fair value determinations. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for information on these acquisitions. We evaluate our unproved property investment periodically for impairment. The majority of these costs generally relate to the acquisition of leasehold costs. The costs are capitalized and evaluated (at least quarterly) as to recoverability, based on changes brought about by economic factors and potential shifts in business strategy employed by management. Impairment of a significant portion of our unproved properties is assessed and amortized on an aggregate basis based on our average holding period, expected forfeiture rate and anticipated drilling success. Impairment of individually significant unproved property is assessed on a property by property basis considering a combination of time, geologic and engineering factors. We continue to experience an increase in lease expirations caused by (1) current economic conditions, which have impacted our future drilling plans thereby increasing the amount of lease expirations and (2) our expansion in shale plays which involved acquisition of a significant acreage position prior to development. Unproved properties had a net book value of $774.5 million in 2009 compared to $758.0 million in 2008 and $262.6 million in 2007. The increase from 2007 represents additional acreage purchases primarily in the Marcellus and Barnett Shale. We have recorded abandonment and impairment expense related to unproved properties of $113.5 million in 2009 compared to $47.4 million in 2008 and $11.2 million in 2007. Oil and Gas Derivatives Every derivative instrument is recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as either an asset or a liability measured at its fair value. Changes in a derivatives fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. All of our derivative instruments are issued to manage the price risk attributable to our expected oil and gas production. In determining the amounts to be recorded for our open hedge contracts, we are required to estimate the fair value of the derivative. Our derivatives are measured using a market approach using third party pricing services which have been corroborated with data from active markets or broker quotes. While we remain at risk for possible changes in the market value of commodity derivatives, such risk should be mitigated by price changes in the underlying physical commodity. The determination of fair values includes various factors including the impact of our nonperformance risk on our liabilities and the credit standing of our counterparties. Our counterparties include twelve financial institutions, eleven of which are secured lenders in our bank credit facility. 46 Table of Contents Through December 2009, we have elected to designate our commodity derivative instruments that qualify for hedge accounting as cash flow hedges. To designate a derivative as a cash flow hedge, we document at the hedges inception our assessment that the derivative will be highly effective in offsetting expected changes in cash flows from the item hedged. This assessment, which is updated at least quarterly, is based on the most recent relevant historical correlation between the derivative and the item hedged. The ineffective portion of the hedge is calculated as the difference between the change in fair value of the derivative and the estimated change in cash flows from the item hedged. If, during the derivatives term, we determine the hedge is no longer highly effective, hedge accounting is prospectively discontinued and any remaining unrealized gains or losses, based on the effective portion of the derivative at that date, are reclassified to earnings as oil or gas sales when the underlying transaction occurs. If it is determined that the designated hedged transaction is not probable to occur, any unrealized gains or losses are recognized immediately in the statement of operations as derivative fair value income (loss). During 2009, there were gains of $5.4 million compared to losses of $583,000 in 2008 and losses of $16.3 million in 2007 reclassified into earnings as a result of the discontinuance of hedge accounting treatment for our derivatives. We apply hedge accounting to qualifying derivatives used to manage price risk associated with our oil and gas production. Accordingly, we record changes in the fair value of our derivative contracts, including changes associated with time value, in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) on our consolidated balance sheet. Gains or losses on these swap and collar contracts are reclassified out of AOCI and into oil and gas sales when the underlying physical transaction occurs. Any hedge ineffectiveness associated with contracts qualifying for and designated as a cash flow hedge (which represents the amount by which the change in the fair value of the derivative differs from the change in the cash flows of the forecasted sale of production) is reported currently each period in derivative fair value income (loss) on our consolidated statement of operations. Ineffectiveness can be associated with open positions (unrealized) or can be associated with closed contracts (realized). Realized and unrealized gains and losses on derivatives that are not designated as hedges are accounted for using the mark to market accounting method. We recognize all unrealized and realized gains and losses related to these contracts in our consolidated statement of operations each period in derivative fair value income (loss). We also enter into basis swap agreements which do not qualify for hedge accounting and are marked to market. The price we receive for our gas production can be more or less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix our basis adjustments. Cash flows from our derivative contract settlements are reflected in cash flow provided from operating activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. Asset Retirement Obligations We have significant obligations to remove tangible equipment and restore land at the end of oil and gas production operations. Removal and restoration obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells. Estimating the future asset removal costs is difficult and requires us to make estimates and judgments because most of the removal obligations are many years in the future and contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what constitutes removal. Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are regulatory, political, environmental, safety and public relations considerations. Inherent in the fair value calculation are numerous assumptions and judgments including the ultimate retirement costs, inflation factors, credit adjusted discount rates, timing of retirement, and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and political environments. To the extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present value of the existing asset retirement obligation, (ARO), a corresponding adjustment is made to the oil and gas property balance. For example, as we analyze actual plugging and abandonment information, we may revise our estimate of current costs, the assumed annual inflation of the costs and or the assumed productive lives of our wells. During 2009, we increased our existing estimated asset retirement obligation by $4.5 million or approximately 5% of the asset retirement obligation at December 31, 2008. In addition, increases in the discounted ARO liability resulting from the passage of time are reflected as accretion expense, a component of depletion, depreciation and amortization in our consolidated statement of operations. Because of the subjectivity of assumptions and the relatively long lives of most of our wells, the costs to ultimately retire our wells may vary significantly from prior estimates. Deferred Taxes We are subject to income and other taxes in all areas in which we operate. When recording income tax expense, certain estimates are required because income tax returns are generally filed many months after the close of a calendar year, tax returns are subject to audit, which can take years to complete, and future events often impact the timing of when income tax expenses and benefits are recognized. We have deferred tax assets relating to tax operating loss carryforwards and other deductible differences. We routinely evaluate deferred tax assets to determine the likelihood of realization. A valuation allowance is recognized on deferred tax assets when we believe that certain of these assets are not likely to be realized. 47 Table of Contents In determining deferred tax liabilities, accounting rules require accumulated other comprehensive income to be considered, even though such income or loss has not yet been earned. At year end 2009, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $768.9 million, with $3.8 million of deferred tax liabilities related to unrealized hedging gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income. At year end 2008, deferred tax liabilities exceeded deferred tax assets by $816.4 million, with $44.7 million of deferred tax liabilities related to unrealized hedging gains included in OCI. We may be challenged by taxing authorities over the amount and or timing of recognition of revenues and deductions in our various income tax returns. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for all taxes, gains or losses could occur in the future due to changes in estimates or resolution of outstanding tax matters. Contingent Liabilities A provision for legal, environmental and other contingent matters is charged to expense when the loss is probable and the cost or range of cost can be reasonably estimated. Judgment is often required to determine when expenses should be recorded for legal, environmental and contingent matters. In addition, we often must estimate the amount of such losses. In many cases, our judgment is based on the input of our legal advisors and on the interpretation of laws and regulations, which can be interpreted differently by regulators and or the courts. We monitor known and potential legal, environmental and other contingent matters and make our best estimate of when to record losses for these matters based on available information. Although we continue to monitor all contingencies closely, particularly our outstanding litigation, we currently have no material accruals for contingent liabilities. Revenue Recognition Oil, gas and natural gas liquids revenues are recognized when the products are sold and delivery to the purchaser has occurred. We use the sales method to account for gas imbalances, recognizing revenue based on gas delivered rather than our working interest share of gas produced. We recognize the cost of revenues, such as transportation and compression expense, as a reduction of revenue. Stock based Compensation Arrangements The fair value of stock options and stock settled SARs is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. The model employs various assumptions, based on managements best estimates at the time of the grant, which impact the fair value calculated and ultimately, the expense that is recognized over the life of the award. We utilize historical data and analyze current information to reasonably support these assumptions. The fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. We recognize stock based compensation expense on a straight line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. The expense we recognize is net of estimated forfeitures. We estimate our forfeiture rate based on prior experience and adjust it as circumstances warrant. Restricted stock awards are classified as a liability and are remeasured at fair value each reporting period with the resulting gain or loss recognized in deferred compensation plan expense in our consolidated statement of operations. Accounting Standard Not Yet Adopted In June 2009, the FASB issued ASC 810 10 65 (formerly SFAS No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)) which amends the consolidation guidance applicable to a variable interest entity (VIE). This standard also amends the guidance governing the determination of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a VIE, and is therefore required to consolidate an entity, by requiring a qualitative analysis rather than a quantitative analysis. Previously, the standard required reconsideration of whether an enterprise was the beneficiary of a VIE only when specific events had occurred. This standard is effective for calendar year companies beginning in January 1, 2010. Early adoption is prohibited. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of the adoption of this standard on our financial statements, but do not expect it to have a material effect. ITEM 7A. QUANTITIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil and gas prices and interest rates. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposure. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. All accounts are US dollar denominated. 48 Table of Contents Financial Market Risk The debt and equity markets have exhibited adverse conditions since late 2007. The unprecedented volatility and upheaval in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing debt instruments due to increased spreads over relevant interest rate benchmarks and may affect our ability to access those markets. At this point, we do not believe our liquidity has been materially affected by the recent events in the global markets and we do not expect our liquidity to be materially impacted in the near future. We will continue to monitor our liquidity and the capital markets. Additionally, we will continue to monitor events and circumstances surrounding each of our twenty six lenders in the bank credit facility. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors. Market Risk We are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of oil and gas prices. We employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to manage the risks related to these price fluctuations. Realized prices are primarily driven by worldwide prices for oil and spot market prices for North American gas production. Oil and gas prices have been volatile and unpredictable for many years. We are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates. Commodity Price Risk We use commodity based derivative contracts to manage exposures to commodity price fluctuations. We do not enter into these arrangements for speculative or trading purposes. We do not utilize complex derivatives such as swaptions, knockouts or extendable swaps. At times, certain of our derivatives are swaps where we receive a fixed price for our production and pay market prices to the counterparty. At December 31, 2009, our derivatives program includes collars, which establish a minimum floor price and a predetermined ceiling price. As of December 31, 2009, we had collars covering 108.5 Bcf of gas and 0.4 million barrels of oil. These contracts expire monthly through December 2011. The fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized upon immediate liquidation as of December 31, 2009, approximated a net unrealized pre tax gain of $28.7 million. At December 31, 2009, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding: Average Fair Period Contract Type Volume Hedged Hedge Price Market Value (in thousands) Natural Gas 2010 Collars 242,356 Mmbtu/day $5.53$7.37 $ 24,562 2011 Collars 55,000 Mmbtu/day $6.00$7.50 $ 4,108 Crude Oil 2010 Collars 1,000 bbl/day $75.00$93.75 $ 66 49 Table of Contents Other Commodity Risk We are impacted by basis risk, caused by factors that affect the relationship between commodity futures prices reflected in derivative commodity instruments and the cash market price of the underlying commodity. Natural gas transaction prices are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices experienced in local markets. If commodity price changes in one region are not reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased basis risk. In addition to the collars and swaps above, we have entered into basis swap agreements. The price we receive for our gas production can be more or less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (basis), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered into basis swap agreements that effectively fix the basis adjustments. The fair value of the basis swaps was a net realized pre tax loss of $17.8 million at December 31, 2009. The following table shows the fair value of our collars and the hypothetical change in fair value that would result from a 10% change in commodity prices at December 31, 2009. We remain at risk for possible changes in the market value of commodity derivative instruments; however, such risks should be mitigated by price changes in the underlying physical commodity. The hypothetical change in fair value would be a gain or loss depending on whether prices increase or decrease (in thousands): Hypothetical Change in Fair Value Fair Value Collars $ 28,735 $ 43,000 Our commodity based contracts expose us to the credit risk of non performance by the counterparty to the contracts. Our exposure is diversified among major investment grade financial institutions and we have master netting agreements with the majority of our counterparties that provide for offsetting payables against receivables from separate derivative contracts. Our derivative contracts are with multiple counterparties to minimize our exposure to any individual counterparty. Our derivative counterparties include twelve financial institutions, eleven of which are secured lenders in our bank credit facility. We have one counterparty that is not part of our bank group and three counterparties in our bank group with no master netting agreement. J. Aron Company is the counterparty not in our bank group. At December 31, 2009, our net derivative receivable includes a payable to J. Aron Company of $1.6 million. Counterparty credit risk is considered when determining the fair value of our derivative contracts. While counterparties are major investment grade financial institutions, the fair value of our derivative contracts have been adjusted to account for the risk of non performance by counterparty, which was immaterial. Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to interest rate risk on our bank debt. We attempt to balance variable rate debt, fixed rate debt and debt maturities to manage interest costs, interest rate volatility and financing risk. This is accomplished through a mix of fixed rate senior subordinated debt and variable rate bank debt. At December 31, 2009, we had $1.7 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $1.4 billion bears interest at a fixed rate averaging 7.4%. Bank debt totaling $324.0 million bears interest at floating rates, which was 2.1% on that date. On December 31, 2009, the 30 day LIBOR rate was 0.2%. A 1% increase in short term interest rates on the floating rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2009 would cost us approximately $3.2 million in additional annual interest expense. The fair value of our subordinated debt is based on year end quoted market prices. The following table presents information on these fair values (in thousands): 50 Table of Contents Carrying Fair Value Value Fixed rate debt: Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 $ 198,362 $ 204,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 150,000 148,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 6.375%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 249,637 256,250 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 250,000 256,875 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.5%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 250,000 252,500 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 7.25%) Senior Subordinated Notes due 2019 285,834 321,000 (The interest rate is fixed at a rate of 8.0%) $ 1,383,833 $ 1,439,625 
 
