Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Proximity to local markets, availability of competitive fuels and overall supply and demand are factors affecting the prices for which our production can be sold. Market volatility due to fluctuating weather conditions, international political developments, overall energy supply and demand, economic growth rates and other factors in the United States and worldwide have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on energy prices. We incur gathering and transportation expenses to move our natural gas and crude oil from the wellhead and tanks to purchaser specified delivery points. These expenses vary based on volume, distance shipped and the fee charged by the third party transporters. In the Southwestern region, our natural gas and oil production is transported primarily through third party trucks, field gathering systems and transmission pipelines. Transportation capacity on these gathering systems and pipelines is occasionally constrained. In Appalachia, we own approximately 2,750 miles of gas gathering pipelines, which transport a portion of our Appalachian gas production and third party gas to transmission lines and directly to end users, and interstate pipelines. Our remaining Appalachian gas volume is transported on third party pipelines on which, in some cases, we hold long term contractual capacity. For additional information, see Risk Factors Our business depends on natural gas and oil transportation and processing facilities, most of which are owned by others, in Item 1A of this report. Seasonal Nature of Business Generally, but not always, the demand for natural gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers sometimes lessen this fluctuation. In addition, pipelines, utilities, local distribution companies and industrial end users utilize natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer. This can also lessen seasonal demand. Governmental Regulation Our operations are substantially affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations. In particular, natural gas and oil production and related operations are, or have been, subject to taxes and numerous other laws and regulations. All of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate producing crude oil and natural gas properties have statutory provisions regulating the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas, including provisions related to permits for the drilling of wells, bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, and the abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells which may be drilled in an area, and the unitization or pooling of crude oil and natural gas wells, as well as regulations that generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individual wells. In August 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005). Among other matters, the EPAct 2005 amends the Natural Gas Act (NGA), to make it unlawful for any entity, including otherwise non jurisdictional producers such as Range, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), in contravention of rules prescribed by the FERC. On January 20, 2006, the FERC issued rules implementing this provision. The rules make it unlawful in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit any such statement necessary to make the statements not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1,000,000 per day per violation. The new anti manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non jurisdictional sale or gathering, but does apply to activities or otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction which includes the reporting requirements under Order Nos. 704 and 720, described below. It therefore reflects a significant expansion of FERCs enforcement authority. Range has not been affected differently than any other producer of natural gas by this act. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, such laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil and gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the FERC, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. 6 Table of Contents On December 26, 2007, FERC issued a final rule on the annual natural gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing (Order 704). Under Order 704, wholesale buyers and sellers of more than 2.2 million Mmbtus of physical natural gas in the previous calendar year, including natural gas gatherers and marketers, are now required to report, on May 1 of each year beginning in 2009, aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to the formation of price indices. It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. Order 704 also requires market participants to indicate whether they report prices to any index publishers, and if so, whether their reporting complies with FERCs policy statement on price reporting. On November 20, 2008, FERC issued a final rule on the daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements (Order 720), which was modified on January 21, 2010 (Order 720 A) and July 21, 2010 (Order 720 B). Under Orders 720, 720 A and 720 B, major non interstate pipelines, defined as certain non interstate pipelines delivering, on an annual basis, more than an average of 50 million Mmbtus of gas over the previous three calendar years, are required to post daily certain information regarding the pipelines capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has a design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 Mmbtu per day. Environmental and Occupational Matters Our operations are subject to numerous stringent federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection, some of which carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, production and transporting through pipelines, govern the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, limit or prohibit drilling activities in certain areas and on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier and other protected areas, require some form of remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from existing and former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen impoundments and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations or failure to comply with regulatory filings. In addition, these laws and regulations may restrict the rate of production. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (CERCLA), also known as the Superfund law, and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons may include owners or operators of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, all of these persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties, pursuant to environmental statutes, common law or both, to file claims for personal injury and property damages allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants into the environment. Although petroleum, including crude oil and natural gas, is not a hazardous substance under CERCLA, at least two courts have ruled that certain wastes associated with the production of crude oil may be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA and that releases of such wastes may therefore give rise to liability under CERCLA. While we generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous 7 Table of Contents substances, we have not received notification that we may be potentially responsible for cleanup costs under CERCLA or comparable state laws. Other state laws regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes, and new state and federal legislative initiatives that could have a significant impact on us may periodically be proposed and enacted. We also may incur liability under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended (RCRA), which imposes requirements related to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. While there is an exclusion from the definition of hazardous wastes for drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy, these wastes may be regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or state agencies as non hazardous solid waste. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils, can be regulated as hazardous wastes. Although the costs of managing wastes classified as hazardous waste may be significant, we do not expect to experience more burdensome costs than similarly situated companies. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other locations where such materials have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes was not under our control. These properties and the materials disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state laws and regulations. Under such laws and regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), and comparable state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other oil and gas wastes, into federal and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or the state. These laws and any implementing regulations provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for any unauthorized discharges of oil and other substances in reportable quantities and may impose substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and maintain approvals or permits for the discharge of wastewater or storm water and are required to develop and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans, also referred to as SPCC plans, in connection with on site storage of greater than threshold quantities of oil. We regularly review our natural gas and oil properties to determine the need for new or updated SPCC plans and, where necessary, we will be developing or upgrading such plans, the costs of which are not expected to be substantial. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended, or the OPA, contains numerous requirements relating to the prevention of and response to oil spills into waters of the United States. The OPA subjects owners of facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters. While we believe we have been in compliance with OPA, noncompliance could result in varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities. The Clean Air Act, as amended, and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including compressor stations. These laws and any implementing regulations may require us to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent air permit requirements, or use specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. While we may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next few years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits addressing other air emission related issues, we do not believe that such requirements will have a material adverse effect on our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations sometimes occur, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements for any substances used or produced in our operations could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those of the oil and gas industry in general. For instance, recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere. At least 20 states have already taken legal measures to control emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. In California, for example, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 requires the California Air Resources Board to adopt regulations by 2012 that will achieve an overall reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all sources in California of 25% by 2020. 8 Table of Contents On April 2, 2007, the United States Supreme Court held that, if EPA found that greenhouse gas concentrations endanger public health and welfare, it was obligated to regulate their emissions under the Clean Air Act. On December 15, 2009, EPA issued Endangerment and Cause of Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, in which it concluded that the atmospheric concentrations of several greenhouse gases threaten the health and welfare of future generations, and that the combined emissions of these gases from motor vehicles contribute to the atmospheric concentrations of these key greenhouse gases, and, hence, to the threat of climate change. On April 1, 2010, EPA and the Department of Transportation finalized rules that limit emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and on April 2, 2010, EPA finalized a rule that declared greenhouse gases subject to regulation on January 2, 2011, the date on which EPAs mobile source rules impose actual compliance obligations. While EPAs endangerment findings and its rules on greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources do not specifically address stationary sources, it is EPAs view that once the mobile source rules were finalized in April 2010, emissions of greenhouse gases from stationary sources became covered under the federal Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V air permit programs, which apply to major sources of air emissions. For purposes of the PSD program, the major source threshold is, at most, 250 tons per year of any regulated pollutant and for purposes of the Title V operating permit program, the threshold is 100 tons per year. In order to deal with the problem of an excessive number of sources being drawn into these programs, EPA has reset the major source thresholds to higher levels than set by statute in the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule. For the first six months of 2011, greenhouse gas sources are required to undergo PSD or Title V review only if they are otherwise subject to PSD review or Title V permitting due to other emissions, and BACT review applies to the PSD applicant if the expected GHG emission increase is greater than 75,000 tons per year. Beginning on July 1, 2011, sources not otherwise brought into PSD or Title V may be required to undergo PSD or Title V review due to their greenhouse gas emissions alone, if in excess of 100,000 tons per year. On September 23, 2009, EPA finalized a greenhouse gas reporting rule establishing a national greenhouse gas emissions collection and reporting program. The EPA rules require covered entities to measure greenhouse gas emissions commencing in 2011 and to submit reports commencing no later than March 31, 2012. While we do not operate stationary sources that emit significant quantities of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, we do utilize gas processing plants to process the natural gas that we produce and, thus if such processors were to incur increased costs to acquire and surrender emission allowances or otherwise to capture and dispose of greenhouse gases, it is possible that these costs, which might be significant, could be passed along to us as well as similarly situated producers. Moreover, any adoption of a program to tax the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases potentially could be imposed on us and other similarly situated producers of natural gas. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business or demand for our products. Given the possible impact of legislation and or regulation of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, we have considered and expect to continue to consider the impact of laws or regulations intended to address climate change on our operations. Under the new regulations, our operations require reporting or monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions. Since our emissions are minimal, we do not expect this to have a material effect on our operations. In addition, we also operate mobile equipment in the normal course of our business that emits carbon dioxide as well as some stationary engines that power compressors and pumping equipment. Methane is a primary constituent of natural gas and, like all oil and gas exploration and production companies, we produce significant quantities of natural gas; however, such production of natural gas, including its constituent hydrocarbon methane, is gathered and transported in pipelines under pressure and we therefore do not emit significant quantities of methane in connection with our operations. Given our lack of significant points of carbon dioxide emissions, we have focused most of our efforts on physical environmental ground, water and air issues in our operations. We are also subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended (OSHA), and comparable state laws that regulate the protection of the health and safety of employees. In addition, OSHAs hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with the OSHA requirements. The federal Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (SDWA) and comparable state laws regulate the nations public drinking water supply by regulating public water systems as well as underground sources of drinking water. Under the SDWA, EPA sets standards for drinking water quality and oversees the states, localities and water suppliers that implement those standards. The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives are currently considering bills entitled, the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, or the FRAC Act, to amend SDWA to repeal an exemption from regulation for hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process involving the injection of water, sand and small amounts of chemical additives under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil or natural gas production. Sponsors of these bills have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could result in third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on 9 Table of Contents allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business as well as delay the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. In summary, we believe we are in substantial compliance with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with environmental requirements, there is no assurance that this will continue. We did not have any material capital or other non recurring expenditures in connection with complying with environmental laws or environmental remediation matters in 2010, nor do we anticipate that such expenditures will be material in 2011. However, we regularly have expenditures to comply with environmental laws and those costs continue to increase as our operations expand. Action by the United States Environmental Protection Agency On December 7, 2010, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Region VI, issued an administrative order (the Order) to Range, and our subsidiary Range Production Company, directing us to take certain action with regard to the existence of natural gas in two water wells in southern Parker County, Texas. The Order was issued without prior notice and without an opportunity for us to respond to the allegations on which the order was based, including the EPAs conclusion that two of our subsidiarys wells completed and producing from the Barnett Shale formation at a depth of approximately 5,800 feet caused or contributed to the presence of natural gas in the aquifer which is found at a depth of approximately 200 400 feet. Because we believe the Order was factually baseless and legally deficient, we advised the EPA that we would not voluntarily comply with the Order. Instead we requested that EPA review additional data provided by us to EPA and, withdraw the Order based on the fact the conclusions in the Order were based on insufficient data and incorrect analysis. Additionally, the Texas Railroad Commission (the Commission), the state agency with jurisdiction over our operations of the wells, had an ongoing investigation into the occurrence of natural gas in one of the two subject water wells (an investigation in which we were cooperating) and, in reaction to the Order, ordered a hearing to address the conclusions in the Order. The EPA declined to participate in the Commission hearing held on January 19 and 20, 2011. Prior to the hearing, in cooperation with the Commissions Oil and Gas Division, we conducted a further investigation, in addition to the investigative efforts made from August 2010 to December 2010, including additional gas sampling, water sampling, soil sampling and analyses of natural gas from our wells, water from more than 25 area water wells and several hundred soil gas samples. Expert witness testimony and other evidence at the Commission hearing demonstrated, in summary, that: (i) it is impossible for hydraulic fracturing of our wells to have caused any harm to any water aquifer at the depths of the subject aquifer; (ii) isotopic and compositional gas sample analysis demonstrated that the source of the natural gas in the water aquifer is a shallow rock formation known as the Strawn formation which lies directly beneath the water aquifer and has geologic connection to the water aquifer including flow pathways to the aquifer, (iii) the EPAs factual conclusions from its isotopic analysis are flawed and do not support the legal conclusions in the Order; (iv) our wells are sound with properly designed and constructed wellbores that are not a pathway for natural gas to flow into the water aquifer; (v) a number of other water wells in the area, which predate the drilling and completion of our wells, have produced significant quantities and are known to contain natural gas; (vi) a number of other water wells in the area have been drilled through the water aquifer into the Strawn formation, providing additional potential pathways beyond the geologic connection of the Strawn to the water aquifer, for natural gas to migrate from the Strawn into the water aquifer; (vii) the water sampling indicates that water from the aquifer is safe to drink; and (viii) provided the water wells in the area are properly vented, human health is protected and any safety hazards associated with the levels of natural gas in the water wells are removed. The hearing examiners have closed the evidentiary record but not yet issued their recommendation to the Commission for consideration in issuing a final order. However, we believe that the record before the Commission will demonstrate that the EPA Order is wrong and that Range neither caused nor contributed to any contamination of the water aquifer. On January 18, 2011, the EPA filed an action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division, seeking a judgment enforcing the Order and of up to $16,500 per day for each alleged violation of the Order. On January 21, 2011, Range filed an appeal of the Order in the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (the proper forum for such an appeal) seeking to invalidate the Order on the basis of the factual errors and legal deficiencies. Both the enforcement action and the appeal are in the early stages and, while we believe that the Order lacks sufficient factual and legal bases, and Range will vigorously pursue the appeal of the Order and defend the enforcement action, at this time we cannot predict the outcome of either the enforcement action or the appeal. However, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of this matter will have a material impact on our financial position, statement of operations or cash flows. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. Risks Related to Our Business Volatility of natural gas and oil prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources and could hamper our ability to produce natural gas and oil economically Natural gas and oil prices are volatile, and a decline in prices adversely affects our profitability and financial condition. The oil and gas industry is typically cyclical, and prices for natural gas and oil have been volatile. Historically, the industry has experienced downturns characterized by oversupply and or weak demand. Long term supply and demand for oil and gas is uncertain and subject to a myriad of factors such as: the domestic and foreign supply of natural gas and oil; the price and availability of alternative fuels; weather conditions; the level of consumer demand; the price of foreign imports; worldwide economic conditions; the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities and processing facilities; the effect of worldwide energy conservation efforts; political conditions in natural gas and oil producing regions; and domestic (federal, state and local) and foreign governmental regulations and taxes. In July 2008, the average New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) price of oil was $133.49 per barrel and the average NYMEX price of gas was $12.96 per mcf. In December 2008, the average NYMEX price of oil had fallen to $42.04 per barrel and gas was $6.56 per mcf. In 2009, oil prices rebounded to $74.60 per barrel as of December 31, 2009, while gas prices remained depressed at $4.46 per mcf. In December 2010, the average NYMEX price for oil had increased to $89.23 per barrel while gas prices declined to $4.27 per mcf. Significant or extended price declines can adversely affect the amount of natural gas, NGL and oil that we can economically produce. A reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require a reduction in capital spending or require additional borrowing. Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves which would negatively affect our future rate of growth. Information concerning our reserves and future net cash flow estimates is uncertain There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved reserves are by their nature uncertain. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could be material. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of natural gas and oil that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of natural gas and oil reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated: the amount and timing of natural gas and oil production; the revenues and costs associated with that production; and the amount and timing of future development expenditures. The discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves included in this report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based on a twelve month average price (beginning of month) while cost estimates are as of the end of the year. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting 11 Table of Contents purposes under generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general. If natural gas and oil prices decrease or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to record writedowns of our natural gas and oil properties In the past we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our natural gas and oil properties, and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional writedowns in the future. Writedowns may occur when natural gas and oil prices are low, or if we have downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of operating or development costs, deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where the cost to redrill or repair is not supported by the expected economics. Accounting rules require that the carrying value of natural gas and oil properties be periodically reviewed for possible impairment. Impairment is recognized for the excess of book value over fair value when the book value of a proven property is greater than the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that property and on acreage when conditions indicate the carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required to write down the carrying value of a property based on natural gas and oil prices at the time of the impairment review, or as a result of continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data, economics, divestiture activity, and other factors. While an impairment charge reflects our long term ability to recover an investment, it does not impact cash or cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce our reported earnings and increases our leverage ratios. Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flow from operations, our bank credit facility and debt and equity issuances. We have also engaged in asset monetization transactions. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of natural gas and oil and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If our access to capital were limited due to numerous factors, which could include a decrease in revenues due to lower natural gas and oil prices or decreased production or deterioration of the credit and capital markets, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves. We may not be able to incur additional bank debt, issue debt or equity, engage in asset monetization or access other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet our reserve replacement requirements. The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders, at their discretion, taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The decline in natural gas and oil prices in 2008 adversely impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. If commodity prices (particularly natural gas prices) continue to decline, it will have similar adverse effects on our reserves and borrowing base. Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce Because the rate of production from natural gas and oil properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire and produce additional natural gas and oil reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future natural gas and oil production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost. We acquire significant amounts of unproved property to further our development efforts. Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We acquire both producing and unproved properties as well as lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance growth potential and increase our earnings over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, there can be no assurance that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells. 12 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital resources depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing operations will also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue additional acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase, both to complete such acquisitions and to explore and develop any newly acquired properties. The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations; a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage; our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the general economy; we are subject to numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our existing credit agreements the breach of which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance; our debt level could limit our flexibility to grow the business and in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future. Despite our current levels of indebtedness, we still may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further increase the risks described above. In addition to those risks above, we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms. Our business is subject to operating hazards that could result in substantial losses or liabilities that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies Natural gas and oil operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic natural gas and other environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of: injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution or other environmental damage; clean up responsibilities; regulatory investigations and penalties; or suspension of operations. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. We have experienced substantial increases in premiums, especially in areas affected by hurricanes and tropical storms. Insurers have imposed revised limits affecting how much the insurers will pay on actual storm claims plus the cost to re drill wells where substantial damage has been incurred. Insurers are also requiring us to retain larger deductibles and reducing the scope of what insurable losses will include. Even with the increase in future insurance premiums, coverage will be reduced, requiring us to bear a greater potential risk if our natural gas and oil properties are damaged. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in our credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, at December 31, 2010, approximately 86% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the remaining 14% subject to variable interest rates. 13 Table of Contents Continuing disruptions and volatility in the global finance markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital; a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We are exposed to some credit risk related to our bank credit facility to the extent that one or more of our lenders may be unable to provide necessary funding to us under our existing revolving line of credit if it experiences liquidity problems. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets, the credit markets and the economy in general may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations Global financial markets have been disrupted and volatile and economic conditions remain weak. As a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets in general and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of accessing the credit markets generally has increased, as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and limited the amount of funding available to borrowers. As a result, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our current credit facility because (i) our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) the amount we may borrow under our current credit facility could be reduced as a result of lower natural gas, natural gas liquids or oil prices, declines in reserves, stricter lending requirements or regulations, or for other reasons. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks To manage our exposure to price risk, we, from time to time, enter into hedging arrangements, utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a significant portion of our future production. The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if natural gas and oil prices rise above the price established by the hedge. In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: our production is less than expected; the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or an event materially impacts natural gas or oil prices or the relationship between the hedged price index and the natural gas or oil sales price. We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will adequately protect us from declines in the prices of natural gas or oil. On the other hand, where we choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in natural gas or oil prices than our competitors who engage in hedging transactions. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The United States Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over the counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The new legislation, known as the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Act), was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and options contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize these regulations. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of 14 Table of Contents derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of natural gas and oil prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to natural gas and oil. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our business and marketing natural gas or oil. Competitors include multinational oil companies, independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or weather industry downturns more easily than we can. The demand for field services and their ability to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill and produce our oil and natural gas properties In a rising price environment, such as those experienced in 2007 and early 2008, well service providers and related equipment and personnel are in short supply. This caused escalating prices, the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use of equipment and inexperienced personnel. In some cases, we are operating in areas where services and infrastructure are limited, or do not exist or in urban areas which are more restrictive. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipelines status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. While our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, our gas gathering operations may be subject to certain FERC reporting and posting requirements in a given year. FERC has recently issued a final rule requiring certain participants in the natural gas market, including certain gathering facilities and natural gas marketers that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases, to submit annual reports to FERC on the aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to, the formation of price indices. In addition, FERC has issued a final rule requiring major non interstate pipelines, defined as certain non interstate pipelines delivering more than an average of 50 million MMBtu of gas over the previous three calendar years, to post daily, certain information regarding the pipelines capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERCs policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipelines rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. For more information regarding the regulation of our operations, please see Government Regulation in Item 1 of this report. 15 Table of Contents Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated as a natural gas company by FERC under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non FERC jurisdiction facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. We also must comply with the anti market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject Range to civil penalty liability. For more information regarding regulation of our operations, please see Government Regulation in Item 1 of this report. The natural gas and oil industry is subject to extensive regulation The natural gas and oil industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United States by local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous departments and agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on participants in the natural gas and oil industry. Compliance with such rules and regulations often increases our cost of doing business, delays our operations and, in turn, decreases our profitability. Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws, regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property damage or injuries to employees and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and even may be caused by previous owners of property we own or lease or relate to third party sites. Any past, present or future failure by us to completely comply with environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could cause us to incur substantial fines, sanctions or liabilities from cleanup costs or other damages. Incurrence of those costs or damages could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses. Climate change is receiving increasing attention from scientists, legislators and governmental agencies. There is an ongoing debate as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the potential causes of this change and its potential impacts. Some attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. There are a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations to control or restrict emissions, taxes or other charges to deter emissions of greenhouse gases, energy efficiency requirements to reduce demand, or other regulatory actions. These actions could: result in increased costs associated with our operations; increase other costs to our business; affect the demand for natural gas; and impact the prices we charge our customers. Adoption of federal or state requirements mandating a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions could have far reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry and the U.S. economy. We cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For more information regarding the environmental regulation of our business, see Environment and Occupational Matters in Item 1 of this report. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development may be eliminated, and additional state taxes on natural gas extraction may be imposed, as a result of future legislation. Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax benefits currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such 16 Table of Contents changes could be effective. As of December 31, 2010, we had a tax basis of $773.0 million related to prior year capitalized intangible drilling costs, which will be amortized over the next five years. The passage of this legislation or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendells budget proposal for fiscal year 2011, released on February 9, 2009, proposed a new natural gas wellhead tax on both volumes and sales of natural gas extracted in Pennsylvania, where the majority of our acreage in the Marcellus Shale is located. This tax was not approved prior to the Rendell administration leaving office. The new administration in Pennsylvania has not proposed such a tax. The passage of any legislation as a result of the Pennsylvania state budget proposal could increase the tax burden on our operations in the Marcellus Shale. Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It generally is not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily, a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed. In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or regulatory approvals. Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with recent and future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel and none of them is currently subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise. Drilling is an uncertain and costly activity The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough natural gas and oil to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of other factors, including: high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor, or other services; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; reductions in natural gas and oil prices; limitations in the market for natural gas and oil; adverse weather conditions; facility or equipment malfunctions; equipment failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures; 17 Table of Contents casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures, and discharges of toxic gases; lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations; loss of drilling fluid circulation; pressure or irregularities in formations; fires; natural disasters; surface craterings and explosions; and uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete The natural gas and oil industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. New legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and small amounts of additives under pressure into rock formations to stimulate hydrocarbon (natural gas and oil) production. We find that the use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of natural gas and oil from many reservoirs, especially shale formations such as the Barnett Shale and the Marcellus Shale. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the Safe Drinking Water Acts Underground Injection Control Program. While the EPA has yet to take any action to enforce or implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the EPAs recent decision. At the same time, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities and a committee of the U.S. House of Representative is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Pennsylvania, Colorado, and Wyoming have each adopted a variety of well construction, set back, and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Additionally, on December 7, 2010, the EPA issued an order to us to take certain action with regard to the existence of natural gas in two water wells located in southern Parker County, Texas that the EPA concluded resulted from two of our wells in the Barnett Shale formation, thousands of feet below the impacted aquifer. On January 18, 2011, the EPA filed an action in federal court to enforce the order and its penalty provisions of up to $16,500 per day per violation. While we are vigorously contesting this enforcement action and seeking relief from the order in federal appeals court, we cannot predict the outcome of either the enforcement action or appeal. However, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of this matter will have a material impact on our financial position, statement of operations or cash flows. Please see Action by the United States Environmental Protection Agency in Item 1 of this report. 18 Table of Contents Our business depends on natural gas and oil transportation and processing facilities, most of which are owned by others The marketability of our natural gas and oil production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems and processing facilities owned by third parties. The lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. We have recently entered into some firm arrangements in certain of our production areas. We have also entered into long term agreements with third parties to provide natural gas gathering and processing services in the Marcellus Shale. Federal and state regulation of natural gas and oil production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport natural gas and oil. If any of these third party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport or process our product, or if the natural gas quality specifications for a natural gas pipeline or facility changes so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues could be adversely affected. The disruption of third party facilities due to maintenance and or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. In particular, the disruption of certain third party natural gas processing facilities in the Marcellus Shale could materially affect our ability to market and deliver natural gas production in that area. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored and generally have no control over what prices will be charged. A total shut in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. We exist in a litigious environment Any constituent could bring suit regarding our existing or planned operations or allege a violation of an existing contract. Any such action could delay when planned operations can actually commence or could cause a halt to existing production until such alleged violations are resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in defending our rights, but halting existing production or delaying planned operations could impact our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities. Our financial statements are complex Due to United States generally accepted accounting principles and the nature of our business, our financial statements continue to be complex, particularly with reference to hedging, asset retirement obligations, equity awards, deferred taxes and the accounting for our deferred compensation plans. We expect such complexity to continue and possibly increase. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued In 2004, 2005 and 2006, we sold 40.2 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2007, we sold 8.1 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2008, we sold 4.4 million shares of common stock with the proceeds used to pay down a portion of the outstanding balance of our bank credit facility. In 2009, we issued 744,000 shares of common stock to purchase acreage in the Marcellus Shale. In 2010, we issued 380,000 shares of common stock to purchase acreage in the Marcellus Shale. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is limited by our bank credit facility and our senior subordinated note agreements. We also issue restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to our employees and directors as part of their compensation. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock, additional subordinated notes or other securities or debt convertible into common stock, to extend maturities or fund capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders. 19 Table of Contents Dividend limitations Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are imposed under our bank credit facility and under our senior subordinated note agreements. These limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends independent of our dividend policy. Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $23.77 per share to a high of $76.81 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: changes in natural gas and oil prices; variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results; changes in governmental regulation; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; changes in market valuations of comparable companies; additions or departures of key personnel; or future sales of our stock. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future and our stock price could decline as a result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Property Overview Our natural gas and oil operations are concentrated in the Appalachian and Southwestern regions of the United States. Our properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped natural gas and oil leases in these regions. These interests entitle us to drill for and produce natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil from specific areas. Our interests are mostly in the form of working interests and, to a lesser extent, royalty and overriding royalty interests. We have a single company wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments; therefore, segment reporting is not applicable to us. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area by area basis. The table below summarizes data for our operating regions for the year ended December 31, 2010. Average Daily Production Proved Percentage of (Mcfe Production Percentage of Reserves Proved Region per day) (Mcfe) Production (Mmcfe) Reserves Southwestern 238,806 87,164,172 48 % 1,605,435 36 % Appalachian 256,507 93,625,080 52 % 2,836,855 64 % 495,313 180,789,252 100 % 4,442,290 100 % Approximately 81% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2010 are located in the Marcellus Shale and Nora Area in our Appalachia region and the Barnett Shale in our Southwestern region. Each of these plays has a large portfolio of drilling opportunities. Our reserve estimates do not include any probable or possible reserves. 20 Table of Contents The following table below sets forth annual production volumes, sales price and cost data for our largest fields (those whose reserves are greater than 15% of our total proved reserves). Year Ended December 31, 2010 Marcellus (Independence) Barnett (Newark East) Nora Production information: Natural gas (Mmcf) 39,577 35,886 21,269 Natural gas liquids (Mbbls) 2,209 890 Crude oil (Mbbls) 496 35 Total Mmcfe (a) 55,802 41,432 21,269 Average sales prices (wellhead): (b) Natural gas (per mcf) $ 3.56 $ 3.19 $ 3.03 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 41.44 36.08 Crude oil (per bbl) 48.98 75.62 Total (per mcfe) 4.60 3.60 3.03 Production costs: Lease operating (per mcfe) $ 0.37 $ 0.85 $ 0.48 Production and ad valorem tax (per mcfe) 0.18 0.13 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equal six mcf based upon the approximate relative energy content of oil to natural gas, which is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and natural gas prices. (b) We do not record the result of hedging at the field level. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Marcellus (Independence) Barnett (Newark East) Nora Production information: Natural gas (Mmcf) 15,336 40,078 19,133 Natural gas liquids (Mbbls) 721 602 Crude oil (Mbbls) 218 34 Total Mmcfe (a) 20,969 43,893 19,133 Average sales prices (wellhead): (b) Natural gas (per mcf) $ 2.69 $ 2.51 $ 3.17 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 33.84 25.45 Crude oil (per bbl) 49.93 58.05 Total (per mcfe) 3.65 2.68 3.17 Production costs: Lease operating (per mcfe) $ 0.36 $ 0.80 $ 0.53 Production and ad valorem tax (per mcfe) 0.15 0.17 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equal six mcf based upon the approximate relative energy content of oil to gas, which is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and gas prices. (b) We do not record the result of hedging at the field level. 21 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Marcellus (Independence) Barnett (Newark East) Nora Production information: Natural gas (Mmcf) 4,217 32,165 17,126 Natural gas liquids (Mbbls) 94 354 Crude oil (Mbbls) 73 39 Total Mmcfe (a) 5,215 34,520 17,126 Average sales prices (wellhead): (b) Natural gas (per mcf) $ 9.83 $ 6.79 $ 8.54 Natural gas liquids (per bbl) 51.42 45.64 Crude oil (per bbl) 90.83 99.78 Total (per mcfe) 10.14 6.91 8.54 Production costs: Lease operating (per mcfe) $ 0.73 $ 0.86 $ 0.49 Production and ad valorem tax (per mcfe) 0.17 0.32 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equal six mcf based upon the approximate relative energy content of oil to gas, which is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and gas prices. (b) We do not record the result of hedging at the field level. Appalachian Region Our properties in this area are located in the Appalachian Basin in the northeastern United States, principally in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Virginia. The reserves principally produce from the Pennsylvanian (coalbed formation), Upper Devonian, Medina, Huron Shale, Big Lime and Marcellus Shale formations at depths ranging from 2,500 to 9,000 feet. We own 4,969 net producing wells, 78% of which we operate, and approximately 2,750 miles of gas gathering lines. Our average working interest is 71%. We have approximately 1.8 million gross (1.5 million net) acres under lease, which include 340,000 acres where we also own a royalty interest. Reserves at December 31, 2010 were 2.8 Tcfe, an increase of 1.0 Tcfe, or 56%, from 2009 with drilling additions partially offset by asset sales (189.6 Bcfe) and production. Annual production increased 43% over 2009. During 2010, this region spent $735.5 million to drill 285.0 (196.7 net) development wells, of which 284.0 (195.7 net) were productive, and 7.0 (5.4 net) exploratory wells, of which 5.0 (3.4 net) were productive. At December 31, 2010, the Appalachian region had an inventory of 2,060 proven drilling locations and 655 proven recompletions. During the year, the Appalachian region drilled 168 proven locations, added 522 new proven locations and deleted 1,400 proven locations due to asset sales. Marcellus Shale We began operations in the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania during 2004. The Marcellus Shale is a non conventional reservoir which produces natural gas and NGLs. This has been our largest investment area over the last three years. We had 422 proven drilling locations at December 31, 2010. Our 2010 production was 166% greater than 2009. During 2010, we drilled 113.6 net development wells and 3.9 net exploratory wells in the Marcellus Shale, of which 114.4 net wells were successful. In 2011, we plan to drill 196 wells. During 2010, we had approximately 12 drilling rigs in the field and expect to run 12 to 16 rigs throughout 2011. We have long term agreements with third parties to provide gathering and processing services and infrastructure assets in the Marcellus Shale. In fourth quarter 2009, MarkWest Liberty Midstream, L.L.C. completed a phase two expansion, pursuant to these agreements. This expansion included an additional 120,000 mcf per day of cryogenic natural gas processing, 20 additional miles of gathering and residue gas pipelines and 21,000 horsepower of additional compression. MarkWest expects additional cryogenic processing capacity to be completed in the first half of 2011. Nora Area In 2004, we acquired natural gas properties in the Nora Area. In 2007, through an acquisition, we equalized our working interests in a portion of the field with EQT Corporation and entered into a joint development plan. We have over 1,600 proven drilling locations in the Nora Area. Production in the Nora Area increased from 52,400 Mcfe per day in 2009 to 58,300 Mcfe per day net in 2010. During 22 Table of Contents 2010, we drilled 83.1 net development wells and 1.5 net exploratory wells and achieved a 100% drilling success rate. During 2010, we spent $134.5 million to purchase proved and unproved natural gas properties in this area. In 2011, we plan to drill 83 wells. Southwestern Region The Southwestern region includes drilling, production and field operations in the Barnett Shale of North Central Texas, the Permian Basin of West Texas and eastern New Mexico, and the East Texas Basin, as well as in the Texas Panhandle, Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma and Louisiana and Mississippi. In the Southwestern region, we own 1,954 net producing wells, 96% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 80%. We have approximately 886,000 gross (569,000 net) acres under lease. Total proved reserves in the Southwestern region increased 290.9 Bcfe, or 22%, at December 31, 2010, when compared to year end 2009. Drilling additions (268.2 Bcfe) and a favorable reserve revision for higher prices and performance were partially offset by production. Annual production volumes decreased 7% from 2009. During 2010, this region spent $160.5 million to drill 71 (59.8 net) development wells, of which 69.0 (57.8 net) were productive, and 4.0 (4.0 net) exploratory wells, of which 3.0 (3.0 net) were productive. During the year, the region achieved a 96% drilling success rate. At December 31, 2010, the Southwestern region had a development inventory of 338 proven drilling locations and 426 proven recompletions. During the year, the Southwestern region drilled 27 proven locations and added 110 new proven locations. Development projects include recompletions, infill drilling and to a lesser extent, installation of secondary recovery projects. These activities also include increasing reserves and production through cost control, upgrading lifting equipment, improving gathering systems and surface facilities, and performing restimulations and refracturing operations. Barnett Shale Our operations in the Barnett Shale of North Texas began with the 2006 acquisition of Stroud Energy. We added additional properties from various acquisitions during 2007 and 2008. We now own approximately 52,000 net proved and unproved acres. At December 31, 2010, we have 210 proven drilling locations in this area, and 30 proven recompletions. Our production in the Barnett Shale decreased from 120,255 mcfe per day in 2009 to 113,512 mcfe per day in 2010. The Barnett Shale is a non conventional reservoir and it produces natural gas and NGLs. During 2010, we drilled 24.7 net development wells, of which 22.7 wells were successful. In October 2010, we announced our plans to offer for sale our Barnett properties. The properties include approximately 350 producing wells and 700 proven and unproven drilling locations. Parties began conducting evaluations in December 2010 and on February 28, 2011, we announced we had entered into a definitive agreement to sell these assets along with certain derivative contracts for a price of $900.0 million, subject to typical post closing adjustments. However, the completion of the sale is dependent upon prospective buyer due diligence procedures and there can be no assurance the sale will be completed. 23 Table of Contents Proved Reserves In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions to modernize its oil and natural gas company reserve reporting requirements. We adopted the new rules as of December 31, 2009. The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves based on the new SEC rules as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S X and Item 1200 of Regulation S K: Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves as of Fiscal Year End Based on Average Fiscal Year Prices Natural Gas NGLs Oil Total Reserve Category (Mmcf) (Mbbls) (Mbbls) (Mmcfe)(a) % 2010: Proved Developed 1,762,766 53,071 17,050 2,183,488 49 % Undeveloped 1,803,760 69,651 6,189 2,258,802 51 % Total Proved 3,566,526 122,722 23,239 4,442,290 2009: Proved Developed 1,445,705 26,205 20,626 1,726,696 55 % Undeveloped 1,169,012 25,382 13,457 1,402,043 45 % Total Proved 2,614,717 51,587 34,083 3,128,739 a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf based upon the relative energy content of oil to natural gas, which is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and natural gas prices. The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves for 2008, 2007 and 2006 based on end of year prices: Natural Gas NGLs Oil Total (Mmcf) (Mbbls) (Mbbls) (Mmcfe) (a) % 2008: Proved Developed 1,337,978 16,398 32,611 1,632,032 62 % Undeveloped 875,568 7,451 16,876 1,021,531 38 % Total proved 2,213,546 23,849 49,487 2,653,563 2007: Proved Developed 1,144,709 13,487 33,528 1,426,801 64 % Undeveloped 688,088 4,261 15,384 805,961 36 % Total proved 1,832,797 17,748 48,912 2,232,762 2006: Proved Developed 875,395 10,590 27,160 1,101,895 63 % Undeveloped 560,583 3,051 12,906 656,331 37 % Total proved 1,435,978 13,641 40,066 1,758,226 (a) Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf based upon the relative energy content of oil to natural gas, which is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and natural gas prices. 24 Table of Contents The following table sets forth summary information by area with respect to estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2010: Reserve Volumes PV 10 (a) Amount Natural Gas NGL Oil Total (In (Mmcf) (Mbbls) (Mbbls) (Mmcfe) % thousands) % Appalachian Region 2,371,683 72,872 4,657 2,836,855 64 % $ 2,657,056 57 % Southwestern Region 1,194,843 49,850 18,582 1,605,435 36 % 1,990,296 43 % Total 3,566,526 122,722 23,239 4,442,290 100 % $ 4,647,352 100 % (a) PV 10 was prepared using the twelve month average prices for 2010, discounted at 10% per annum. Year end PV 10 may be considered a non GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC. We believe that the presentation of PV 10 is relevant and useful to our investors as supplemental disclosure to the standardized measure, or after tax amount, because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves prior to taking into account future corporate income taxes and our current tax structure. While the standardized measure is dependent on the unique tax situation of each company, PV 10 is based on prices and discount factors that are consistent for all companies. Because of this, PV 10 can be used within the industry and by creditors and securities analysts to evaluate estimated net cash flows from proved reserves on a more comparable basis. The difference between the standardized measure and the PV 10 amount is the discounted estimated future income tax of $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Included in the $4.6 billion PV 10 is $3.2 billion (pre tax) related to proved developed reserves. Reserve Estimation The following independent petroleum consultants conducted a review of our year end 2010 reserves: DeGolyer and MacNaughton (Southwestern), H.J. Gruy and Associates, Inc. (Southwestern) and Wright and Company, Inc. (Appalachian). These engineers were selected for their geographic expertise and their historical experience in engineering certain properties. At December 31, 2010, these consultants collectively reviewed approximately 90% of our proved reserves. A copy of the summary reserve report of each of these independent petroleum consultants is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The technical person at each independent petroleum consulting firm responsible for reviewing the reserve estimates presented herein meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with our independent petroleum consultants to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to independent petroleum consultants for their review process. Throughout the year, our technical team meets periodically with representatives of each of our independent petroleum consultants to review properties and discuss methods and assumptions. While we have no formal committee specifically designated to review reserves reporting and the reserves estimation process, our senior management reviews and approves any internally estimated significant changes to our proved reserves. We provide historical information to our consultants for our largest producing properties such as ownership interest, natural gas and oil production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs. The consultants perform an independent analysis and differences are reviewed with our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering. In some cases, additional meetings are held to review additional reserve work performed by the technical teams related to any identified reserve differences. Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. The reserves included in this report on Form 10 K are those reserves estimated by our employees. All of our reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering, who reports directly to our President and Chief Operating Officer. Our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from the Pennsylvania State University. Before joining Range, he held various technical and managerial positions with Amoco, Hunt Oil and Union Pacific Resources and has thirty years of experience in the oil and gas industry. During the year, our reserves group may also perform separate, detailed technical reviews of reserve estimates for significant acquisitions or for properties with problematic indicators such as excessively long lives, sudden changes in performance or changes in economic or operation conditions. We did not file any reports during the year ended December 31, 2010 with any federal authority or agency with respect to our estimate of natural gas and oil reserves. Reserve Technologies Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. The term reasonable certainty implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. To achieve reasonable certainty, our internal technical staff employed technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results 25 Table of Contents with consistency and repeatability. The technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, empirical evidence through drilling results and well performance, well logs, geologic maps and available downhole and production data, seismic data, well test data and reservoir simulation modeling. Reporting of Natural Gas Liquids and Oil We produce natural gas liquids as part of the processing of our natural gas. The extraction of natural gas liquids in the processing of natural gas reduces the volume of natural gas available for sale. At December 31, 2010, natural gas liquids represented approximately 17% of our total proved reserves on an mcf equivalent basis. Natural gas liquids are products sold by the gallon. In reporting proved reserves and production of natural gas liquids, we have included production and reserves in barrels. Prices for a barrel of natural gas liquids in 2010 averaged approximately 56% lower than the average prices for equivalent volumes of oil. We report all production information related to natural gas net of the effect of any reduction in natural gas volumes resulting from the processing of natural gas liquids. Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs) As of December 31, 2010, our PUDs totaled 6.2 Mmbbls of crude oil, 69.7 Mmbbls of natural gas liquids and 1.8 Tcf of natural gas, for a total of 2.3 Tcfe. Costs incurred relating to the development of PUDs were approximately $192.0 million in 2010. Approximately 93% of our PUDs at year end 2010 were associated with our major development areas in our Marcellus, Nora and Barnett properties. All PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled prior to the end of 2015 with more than 80% of the future development costs to be spent in the next three years. Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to: conversion of approximately 191.2 Bcfe PUDs into proved developed reserves; new PUDs added of 1.1 Tcfe; and reductions of approximately 230.0 Bcfe in PUDs due to the removal of reserves to comply with SEC five year guidance somewhat offset by 154.0 Bcfe positive revision. Proved Reserves (PV 10) The following table sets forth the estimated future net cash flows, excluding open hedging contracts, from proved reserves, the present value of those net cash flows (PV 10), and the expected benchmark prices and average field prices used in projecting net cash flows over the past five years (in millions, except prices): Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Future net cash flows $ 12,516 $ 6,721 $ 8,441 $ 11,908 $ 6,391 Present value Before income tax 4,647 2,593 3,479 5,205 2,771 After income tax (Standardized Measure) 3,479 2,091 2,581 3,666 2,002 Benchmark prices (NYMEX) Gas price (per mcf) 4.38 3.87 5.71 6.80 5.64 Oil price (per barrel) 79.81 60.85 44.60 95.98 61.05 Wellhead prices Gas price (per mcf) 3.70 3.19 5.23 6.44 5.24 Oil price (per barrel) 72.51 54.65 42.76 91.88 57.66 NGL price (per barrel) 39.14 34.05 25.00 52.64 25.98 Future net cash flows represent projected revenues from the sale of proved reserves net of production and development costs (including operating expenses and production taxes). Based on SEC guidance, prices for 2009 and 2010 were based on a twelve month average, without escalation. Prices for 2006, 2007 and 2008 were based on prices in effect at December 31 of each year, without escalation. Such calculations are also based on costs in effect at December 31 of each year, without escalation. There can be no assurance that the proved reserves will be produced in the future or that prices and costs will remain constant. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating reserves and related information and different reservoir engineers often arrive at different estimates for the same properties. 26 Table of Contents Producing Wells The following table sets forth information relating to productive wells at December 31, 2010. We also own royalty interests in an additional 2,600 wells in which we do not own a working interest. If we own both a royalty and a working interest in a well, such interests are included in the table below. Wells are classified as natural gas or crude oil according to their predominant production stream. We do not have a significant number of dual completions. Average Total Wells Working Gross Net Interest Natural gas 8,681 6,267 72 % Crude oil 767 656 86 % Total 9,448 6,923 73 % The day to day operations of natural gas and oil properties are the responsibility of the operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs or contracts for field personnel and performs other functions. An operator receives reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged by unaffiliated third parties. The charges customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated. Drilling Activity The following table summarizes drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. As of December 31, 2010, we were in the process of drilling 106 gross (101 net) wells. 2010 2009 2008 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Development wells Productive 353.0 253.4 441.0 270.4 602.0 466.0 Dry 3.0 3.0 1.0 0.6 6.0 4.9 Exploratory wells Productive 8.0 6.4 20.0 13.7 20.0 16.1 Dry 3.0 3.0 1.0 0.7 6.0 3.2 Total wells Productive 361.0 259.8 461.0 284.1 622.0 482.1 Dry 6.0 6.00 2.0 1.3 12.0 8.1 Total 367.0 265.8 463.0 285.4 634.0 490.2 Success ratio 98.4 % 97.7 % 99.6 % 99.6 % 98.1 % 98.3 % Gross and Net Acreage We own interests in developed and undeveloped natural gas and oil acreage. These ownership interests generally take the form of working interests in oil and natural gas leases that have varying terms. Developed acreage includes leased acreage that is allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production even though shallower or deeper horizons may not have been fully explored. Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas or oil, regardless of whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves. The following table sets forth certain information regarding the developed and undeveloped acreage in which we own a working interest as of December 31, 2010. Acreage related to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests is excluded from this summary: 27 Table of Contents Developed Acres Undeveloped Acres Total Acres Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Alabama 67,321 61,047 67,321 61,047 Louisiana 8,330 3,068 1,058 505 9,388 3,573 Mississippi 4,909 2,912 24,720 10,430 29,629 13,342 New Mexico 6,890 4,967 1,200 912 8,090 5,879 New York 19,918 10,488 19,918 10,488 Ohio 10,113 9,150 37,985 37,621 48,098 46,771 Oklahoma 179,376 108,299 93,419 49,660 272,795 157,959 Pennsylvania 650,299 586,142 592,542 547,506 1,242,841 1,133,648 Texas 248,887 172,159 249,498 154,575 498,385 326,734 Virginia 125,813 78,934 260,208 185,256 386,021 264,190 West Virginia 65,374 64,145 58,386 57,369 123,760 121,514 1,299,991 1,029,776 1,406,255 1,115,369 2,706,246 2,145,145 Average working interest 79 % 79 % 79 % Undeveloped Acreage Expirations The table below summarizes by year our undeveloped acreage scheduled to expire in the next five years. Acres % of Total As of December 31, Gross Net Undeveloped 2011 328,872 275,041 26 % 2012 268,965 231,690 22 % 2013 191,791 165,494 16 % 2014 64,344 59,695 6 % 2015 50,831 43,815 4 % We have lease acreage that is generally subject to lease expiration if initial wells are not drilled within a specified period, generally between three to five years. However, we have in the past and expect in the future, to be able to extend the lease terms of some of these leases and exchange or sell some of these leases with other companies. The expirations included in the table above do not take into account the fact that we may be able to extend the lease terms. We do not expect to lose significant lease acreage because of failure to drill due to inadequate capital, equipment or personnel. However, based on our evaluation of prospective economics, we have allowed acreage to expire and will allow additional acreage to expire in the future. Title to Properties We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often minimal investigation of record title is made at the time of lease acquisition. Investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include: customary royalty interests; liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes; obligations or duties under applicable laws; development obligations under oil and gas leases; or net profit interests. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We have been named as a defendant in a number of legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, such litigation and claims are likely to be resolved without a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity, although an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on the operations of a given interim period or year. See also Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. ITEM 4. (REMOVED AND RESERVED) 29 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol RRC. During 2010, trading volume averaged 3.3 million shares per day. The following table shows the quarterly high and low sale prices and cash dividends declared as reported on the NYSE composite tape for the past two years. Cash Dividends High Low Declared 2009 First quarter $ 45.86 $ 30.90 $ 0.04 Second quarter 48.78 38.75 0.04 Third quarter 52.86 35.48 0.04 Fourth quarter 60.13 41.99 0.04 2010 First quarter $ 54.65 $ 44.68 $ 0.04 Second quarter 53.64 40.00 0.04 Third quarter 43.12 32.25 0.04 Fourth quarter 46.25 35.11 0.04 Between January 1, 2011 and February 25, 2011, the common stock traded at prices between $44.74 and $52.25 per share. Our senior subordinated notes are not listed on an exchange, but trade over the counter. Holders of Record On February 25, 2011, there were approximately 1,467 holders of record of our common stock. Dividends The payment of dividends is subject to declaration by the Board of Directors and depends on earnings, capital expenditures and various other factors. The bank credit facility and our senior subordinated notes allow for the payment of common and preferred dividends, with certain limitations. The determination of the amount of future dividends, if any, to be declared and paid is at the sole discretion of our board and will depend upon our level of earnings and capital expenditures and other matters that the board deems relevant. Dividends on Range common stock are limited to our legally available funds. For more information, see information set forth in Item 7 of this report Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We have a repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in 2008 for the repurchase of up to $10.0 million of common stock based on market conditions and opportunities. There were no repurchases during 2009 or 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we have $6.8 million remaining under this authorization. 30 Table of Contents Stockholder Return Performance Presentation* The following graph is included in accordance with the SECs executive compensation disclosure rules. This historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock performance. The graph compares the change in the cumulative total return of Ranges common stock, the Dow Jones U.S. Exploration and Production Index, and the SP 500 Index for the five years ended December 31, 2010. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in the Companys common stock and each index on December 31, 2005, and that dividends were reinvested. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Range Resources Corporation $ 100 $ 105 $ 196 $ 132 $ 192 $ 174 SP 500 Index 100 116 122 77 97 112 DJ U.S. Expl. Prod. Index 100 105 151 91 127 149 * The performance graph and the information contained in this section is not soliciting material, is being furnished not filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table shows selected financial information for the five years ended December 31, 2010. Significant producing property acquisitions and dispositions may affect the comparability of year to year financial and operating data. In the first half of 2010, we sold our Ohio properties for proceeds of $323.0 million. The financial and statistical data contained in the following discussion reflect our Gulf of Mexico operations, which were sold in 2007, as discontinued operations. This information should be read in conjunction with Item 7 of this report Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (in thousands, except per share data) Balance Sheet Data: Current assets (a) $ 261,714 $ 175,280 $ 404,311 $ 261,814 $ 388,925 Current liabilities (b) 430,562 314,104 353,514 305,433 251,685 Oil and gas properties, net 4,922,057 4,898,819 4,842,046 3,492,593 2,603,796 Total assets 5,498,586 5,395,881 5,551,879 4,005,293 3,183,382 Bank debt 274,000 324,000 693,000 303,500 452,000 Subordinated notes 1,686,536 1,383,833 1,097,562 847,158 596,782 Stockholders equity (c) 2,223,761 2,378,589 2,451,342 1,717,736 1,258,089 Weighted average diluted shares outstanding 156,874 154,514 155,943 149,911 138,711 Cash dividends declared per common share 0.16 0.16 0.16 0.13 0.09 Statement of Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided from operating activities $ 513,322 $ 591,675 $ 824,767 $ 642,291 $ 479,875 Net cash used in investing activities (798,858 ) (473,807 ) (1,731,777 ) (1,020,572 ) (911,659 ) Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities 287,617 (117,854 ) 903,745 379,917 429,416 (a) 2009 includes $8.1 million deferred tax assets compared to $26.9 million in 2007. 2010 includes $131.5 million of unrealized derivative assets compared to $21.5 million in 2009, $221.4 million in 2008, $53.0 million in 2007 and $93.6 million in 2006. (b) 2010 includes $352,000 of unrealized derivative liabilities compared to $14.5 million in 2009, $10,000 in 2008, $30.5 million in 2007 and $4.6 million in 2006. 2010 includes an $11.8 million deferred tax liability compared to $33.0 million in 2008. (c) Stockholders equity includes other comprehensive income (loss) of $67.5 million in 2010 compared to $6.4 million in 2009, $77.5 million in 2008, ($26.8 million) in 2007 and $36.5 million in 2006. 32 Table of Contents Statement of Operations Data: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (in thousands, except per share data) Revenues and other income: Natural gas, NGL and oil sales $ 909,607 $ 839,921 $ 1,226,560 $ 862,537 $ 599,139 Transportation and gathering 1,068 486 4,577 2,290 2,422 Derivative fair value income (loss) 51,634 66,446 71,861 (9,493 ) 142,395 Gain on the sale of assets 77,597 10,413 20,166 20 21 Other (931 ) (9,925 ) 1,509 5,011 835 Total revenues and other income 1,038,975 907,341 1,324,673 860,365 744,812 Costs and expenses: Direct operating 131,602 133,211 142,387 107,499 81,261 Production and ad valorem taxes 33,652 32,169 55,172 42,443 36,415 Exploration 61,087 46,485 67,690 45,782 44,088 Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties 69,971 113,538 47,355 11,236 4,549 General and administrative 140,571 115,319 92,308 69,670 49,886 Termination costs 8,452 2,479 Deferred compensation plan (10,216 ) 31,073 (24,689 ) 35,438 (233 ) Interest expense 131,192 117,367 99,748 77,737 55,849 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 5,351 Depletion, depreciation and amortization 363,507 373,502 299,831 220,578 154,482 Impairment of proved properties 469,749 930 Total costs and expenses 1,404,918 966,073 779,802 610,383 426,297 (Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes (365,943 ) (58,732 ) 544,871 249,982 318,515 Income tax (benefit) expense Current (836 ) (636 ) 4,268 320 1,912 Deferred (125,851 ) (4,226 ) 189,563 95,987 120,726 (126,687 ) (4,862 ) 193,831 96,307 122,638 (Loss) income from continuing operations (239,256 ) (53,870 ) 351,040 153,675 195,877 Discontinued operations, net of taxes 63,593 (35,247 ) Net (loss) income $ (239,256 ) $ (53,870 ) $ 351,040 $ 217,268 $ 160,630 (Loss) income per common share: Basic (loss) income from continuing operations $ (1.53 ) $ (0.35 ) $ 2.32 $ 1.07 $ 1.46 discontinued operations 0.44 (0.26 ) net (loss) income $ (1.53 ) $ (0.35 ) $ 2.32 $ 1.51 $ 1.20 Diluted (loss) income from continuing operations $ (1.53 ) $ (0.35 ) $ 2.25 $ 1.02 $ 1.41 discontinued operations 0.43 (0.25 ) net (loss) income $ (1.53 ) $ (0.35 ) $ 2.25 $ 1.45 $ 1.16 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our business and results of operations together with our present financial condition. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting our business. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, expects, targets, plans, projects, could, may, should, would or similar words indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with safe harbor provisions for the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, which could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the information under Item 1. Business, Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 6. Selected Financial Data and 
 
