FILE:FLS/FLS-8K-20060331124921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On March 27, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Flowserve Corporation (the "Company") elected Roger Fix, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Standex International Corporation, a diversified manufacturing and marketing company, to serve as a new member of the Board, effective as of April 1, 2006.
     A copy of the Company's press release, dated March 31, 2006 announcing the election of Mr. Fix to serve on the Company's Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          
(d) Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DallasMarch 31, 2006 Flowserve Corp. (NYSE:FLS) announced today that Roger Fix was elected to its board of directors effective April 1, 2006. Fix, 52, is currently the president and chief executive officer of Standex International Corp., a diversified manufacturing and marketing company.
Prior to his current position at Standex, Fix served as chief executive officer, president and director of Outboard Marine Corp. Fix has also served in senior leadership roles at several manufacturing companies including a career at John Crane where he was named chief executive in 1998. Other companies where Fix held senior positions include XOMOX, a division of Emerson Electric, Reda Pump, a division of Pearson, Plc. and Fisher Controls Company.
"We are very pleased that Roger has joined the Flowserve board of directors," said Lewis M. Kling, President and CEO of Flowserve. "He has a vast knowledge of our industry and superb leadership skills that will make him an asset to our board. In addition, his previous experience in our industry and his leadership roles within manufacturing make him well-suited to provide an immediate contribution to the Flowserve board."
Fix holds a bachelor of science in mechanical engineering from the University of Nebraska and a master of science in mechanical engineering from the University of Texas.
With the addition of Fix, the board of directors increases to 11 members.
Flowserve Corp. is one of the world's leading providers of fluid motion and control products and services. Operating in 56 countries, the company produces engineered
 
and industrial pumps, seals and valves as well as a range of related flow management services.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT: This news release includes forward-looking statements. Forward looking statements are all statements that are not statements of historical facts and include, without limitation, statements relating to our business strategy and statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies and anticipated developments concerning our industry, business, operations and financial performance and condition. The words "believe", "seek", "anticipate", "plan", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "project", "forecast", "predict", "potential", "continue", "will", "may", "could", "should", and other words of similar meaning are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made in this news release are made pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that, in some cases, are beyond our control. These risks, uncertainties and factors may cause our actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results and market trends, to be materially different from any future results, performance, achievements or trends expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Important risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: delays in future reports of the Company's management and outside auditors on the Company's internal control over financial reporting and related certifications; continuing delays in the Company's filing of its periodic public reports and any SEC, NYSE or debt rating agencies' actions resulting therefrom; the possibility of adverse consequences of the pending securities litigation and SEC investigations; the possibility of adverse consequences of governmental tax audits of the Company's tax returns, including the upcoming IRS audit of the company's U.S. tax returns for the years 2002 through 2004; the Company's ability to convert bookings, which are not subject to nor computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, into revenues at acceptable, if any, profit margins, since such profit margins cannot be assured nor be necessarily assumed to follow historical trends; changes in the financial markets and the availability of capital; changes in the already competitive environment for the Company's products or competitors' responses to the Company's strategies; the Company's ability to integrate acquisitions into its management and operations; political risks, military actions or trade embargoes affecting customer markets, including the continuing conflict in Iraq and its potential impact on Middle Eastern markets and global petroleum producers; the Company's ability to comply with the laws and regulations affecting its international operations, including the U.S. export laws, and the effect of any noncompliance; the health of the petroleum, chemical, power and water industries; economic conditions and the extent of economic growth in the U.S. and other countries and regions; unanticipated difficulties or costs associated with the implementation of systems, including software; the Company's relative geographical profitability and its impact on the Company's utilization of foreign tax credits; the recognition of significant expenses associated with realigning operations of acquired companies with those of Flowserve; the Company's ability to meet the financial covenants and other requirements in its debt agreements; any terrorist attacks and the response of the U.S. to such attacks or to the threat of such attacks; technological developments in the
 
Company's products as compared with those of its competitors; changes in prevailing interest rates and the Company's effective interest costs; and adverse changes in the regulatory climate and other legal obligations imposed on the Company. It is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. All forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on information available to us on the date of this news release. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement.


