FILE:FLS/FLS-8K-20070629145854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01.      Other Events.
On June 26, 2007, Lewis M. Kling, President and Chief Executive Officer of Flowserve Corporation (the "Company"), and Mark A. Blinn, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company (together, the "Officers," and each, an "Officer"), adopted prearranged trading plans (together, the "Plans," and each, a "Plan") in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Rule 10b5-1"), for the sale of the Company's common stock.
Pursuant to Rule 10b5-1, the Officers adopted the Plans to coordinate stock sales with their overall individual long-term asset diversification, tax and financial planning strategies.
The Plans provide for the sale of portions of each Officer's holdings of the Company's common stock on the open market in specified amounts, at prevailing market prices (subject to specified minimum trading prices), and on specified trade dates. The common stock transactions under the Plans will commence in the next open trading period. Mr. Kling's and Mr. Blinn's Plans will terminate on October 14, 2007 and November 3, 2007, respectively, unless earlier terminated pursuant to the terms of each such Plan.
The Officers that adopted these Plans and the respective numbers of shares subject to these Plans are set forth below. Each of these Officers will continue to own a substantial amount of shares (including unvested shares subject to equity awards) of the Company's common stock following the completion of any and all sales contemplated by the Plans.
Transactions under these Plans, as applicable, will be reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with securities laws, rules and regulations. The Company does not undertake to report Rule 10b5-1 plans that may be adopted by any officers or directors in the future, or to report any modifications or termination of any publicly announced trading plan, except to the extent required by law.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


