FILE:FLS/FLS-8K-20070530075528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
On May 29, 2007, Flowserve Corporation (the "Company") entered into an employment extension agreement (the "Agreement") with its President and Chief Executive Officer, Lewis M. Kling, whereby Mr. Kling has agreed to remain as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer until the earlier of February 28, 2010 or the date on which the Board of Directors of Company appoints a new Chief Executive Officer. In consideration for Mr. Kling's agreement to continue employment past the expiration of his existing employment agreement on July 31, 2008, the Company has agreed to provide Mr. Kling certain long-term and other compensation and benefits as described further below. The following description of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Company's press release, dated May 30, 2007, announcing the extension of Mr. Kling's employment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Long-Term Incentive Compensation
The long-term compensation package is designed to link payment opportunities to Company performance on an absolute scale and relative to the Company's peers. The annual grant value of the long-term incentives will be set at three times Mr. Kling's annual salary in effect on each grant date for each full year of employment. It is anticipated that these annual awards will be evenly divided between restricted stock units (RSUs) subject to time-based vesting and performance-based restricted shares the vesting of which will be dependent on Company performance relative to a defined group of industrial manufacturers in overlapping three-year performance periods. These awards will be made on terms and conditions (including with respect to the establishment of award targets and thresholds) no less favorable than those applicable to other senior management of the Company.
Mr. Kling will receive full awards of RSUs and performance-based restricted shares for each of 2008 and 2009 unless his employment is terminated before the date of grant in such year by reason of death or disability, by the Company for cause (as that term is defined in his existing employment agreement) or by Mr. Kling for any reason other than following the assignment to him of duties materially inconsistent with his position or following any actions by the Company resulting in a material diminution of his position or duties. The RSUs will vest in accordance with the terms of each grant (currently in thirds on each of the first three anniversaries of grant) and the performance-based restricted shares will be earned on the basis of performance over the three-year periods to which they pertain.
The Company has also agreed to grant Mr. Kling 50,000 performance-based restricted shares of the Company. Half of these shares will be earned on the basis of the Company's three-year average return on net asset (RONA) performance relative to the defined group of industrial manufacturers in the years ending 2010, 2011, and 2012. The other half of the 50,000 performance-based restricted shares will be earned if the Company's three-year average total shareholder return (TSR) equals or exceeds the
Table of Contents
average three-year TSR of the defined group of industrial manufacturers in the years ending 2010, 2011, and 2012. In either case, if relative performance falls short of the goals, the shares would not be earned. For each of these performance requirements, fifty percent of the awards would be subject to earnout over the three-year period 2008-2010, 30 percent over the three-year period 2009-2011 and 20 percent over the three-year period 2010-2012.
The foregoing awards will be payable without regard to whether Mr. Kling remains employed by the Company throughout the respective service or performance-based vesting period, except that he will forfeit the awards if he is terminated by the Company for cause or if he resigns without the consent of the Board of Directors of the Company before February 28, 2010 (other then following the assignment to him of duties materially inconsistent with his position or following any actions by the Company resulting in a material diminution of his position or duties).
Other Compensation and Benefits
The Company agreed that there would be no reduction in Mr. Kling's base salary during the term of his employment and that he would be provided with benefits during the term of his employment on a basis no less favorable than that applicable to other senior management of the Company from time to time. The Company also will permit Mr. Kling and his dependents, at his expense with respect to the full cost of the applicable coverage, to participate in the Company's health and dental plans as in effect from time to time after February 28, 2010 (or earlier, in the case of certain qualifying terminations of employment) until the time he and his spouse each become eligible for coverage under Medicare or a plan of a subsequent employer, unless his employment is terminated before February 28, 2010 by the Company for cause. If the provision of such coverage is not possible, the Company will reimburse Mr. Kling (or his spouse, as the case may be) for any costs incurred in obtaining comparable coverage in excess of what the cost would have been under the Company's plans.
Effect on Existing Employment Agreement
The Agreement will supersede Mr. Kling's existing employment agreement with the Company upon the expiration of the existing agreement on July 31, 2008, and the existing agreement will thereupon cease to be effective, except that the Company's indemnification obligations under the existing agreement will continue in effect in accordance with their terms. No severance will be payable to Mr. Kling upon his termination of employment following the qualification of a new Chief Executive Officer, other than payments of accrued compensation and payment in accordance with the terms of the incentive compensation awards as described above.
     
(d)
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
May 29, 2007
Mr. Lewis Kling President and Chief Executive Officer Flowserve Corporation
Dear Lew:
Your colleagues on the Board of Directors of Flowserve Corporation want you to know how pleased we are with the company's performance since you assumed the positions of President and Chief Executive Officer. The completion of the restatements; the drive toward focusing the business units on operational excellence, cooperation, customer satisfaction and total solutions selling; and the strong financial results that have been posted are all very clear indicators of your effectiveness in leading Flowserve over the last 21 months. Building a strong executive team that will continue the implementation of the company's operational and strategic plans and then be able to lead the company subsequent to your retirement is now of paramount importance, and your commitment to this objective is recognized and valued.
We are pleased that you are willing to serve beyond the term of your existing employment agreement and until your successor as CEO is qualified and elected. We have given a great deal of consideration to your total compensation opportunity and have decided to take a variety of actions regarding your long-term incentives. As you shift your focus from dealing with restoring effective operations to preparing the organization for the future, we intend to provide for long-term incentives that recognize those new challenges and, if you are successful, have the potential to enhance significantly the value of your compensation over the term of your employment and beyond.
The long-term compensation package that we have designed, which is summarized in the following paragraphs, is closely linked to the continuing improvement of company performance both absolutely and relative to the Aspiration Group that was recently identified by management (and approved by the Organization & Compensation Committee) as the appropriate benchmark group for both compensation and performance. Of course, there would be no reduction in your base salary during the term of your employment, and you would be provided with benefits during the term of your employment on basis no less favorable than that applicable to other senior management of the company from time to time.
First, we would set the annual grant value of your long-term incentives at three times your annual salary in effect on each grant date for each full year of employment. Consistent with the overall program we recently approved and as further provided in this letter agreement, it is currently planned that these annual awards will be evenly divided
 
between restricted stock units (RSUs) with time-based vesting and performance-based restricted shares the vesting of which will be dependent on Flowserve performance relative to the Aspiration Group in overlapping three-year performance periods. These awards to you would be made on terms and conditions (including with respect to the establishment of award targets and thresholds) no less favorable than those applicable to other senior management of the company.
Second, in connection with your willingness to serve beyond the end of your existing employment agreement, we believe that you should have the ability to benefit from the plans you have created and implemented as well as from the foundation that you are building in the management team, not only through the term of your employment, but also in the years immediately following your retirement. Therefore, in a major departure from our standard practice, (i) you would receive full awards of RSUs and performance-based restricted shares for each of 2008 and 2009 unless your employment is terminated before the date of grant in such year by reason of death or disability (as defined in your existing employment agreement), by the company for cause (as that term is defined in your existing employment agreement) or by you for any reason other than following the assignment to you of duties materially inconsistent with your position or following any actions by the company resulting in a material diminution of your position or duties, and (ii) you would have the opportunity to vest or earn all of those full awards (provided that, to the extent any awards that might otherwise be required following a termination of employment cannot be made as contemplated by reason of securities or other laws, the company will provide an award of economically equivalent value as of the date of grant (as determined for financial reporting purposes) in a form that does not result in a violation of such laws). The RSUs will vest in accordance with the terms of each grant (currently in thirds on each of the first three anniversaries of grant) and the performance-based restricted shares may be earned on the basis of performance over the three-year periods to which they pertain. In practical terms (assuming that a new CEO is in place no later than February 2010), this means that vesting and earnout of some of your awards will continue to occur in 2010, 2011 and 2012 and will not be dependent on your being employed by the company.
Third, in connection with your agreeing to serve beyond the expiration of your existing employment agreement, we would grant you 50,000 performance-based restricted shares. Half of these shares may be earned on the basis of Flowserve's three-year average RONA performance relative to the Aspiration Group after your retirement. If Flowserve's projected RONA performance in the years ending 2010, 2011, and 2012 is achieved as determined by the O&C Committee, the shares would be earned. The other half of the 50,000 performance-based restricted shares may be earned on the basis of Flowserve's three-year average total shareholder return (TSR), also relative to the Aspiration Group's three-year average TSR. The shares would be earned if Flowserve's TSR equals or exceeds the average three-year TSR of the Aspiration Group in the years ending 2010, 2011, and 2012. In either case, if relative performance falls short of the goals, the shares would not be earned. For each of these performance requirements, fifty percent of the awards would be subject to earnout over the three-year period 2008-2010, 30 percent over the three-year period 2009-2011 and 20 percent over the three-year period 2010-2012.
 
Among the conditions of the grants described in this letter are (a) that you must remain employed as CEO through the earlier of the date at which the Board of Directors appoints a new CEO or February 28, 2010, and (b) that you will agree to resign your employment and position as a director and all other positions with the company and its affiliates upon the qualification of a new CEO without recourse to the company's severance plan for corporate officers or any other severance arrangements to which you are otherwise entitled (provided that you will be paid your "accrued compensation (as defined in your existing employment agreement and provided further that, if you are terminated by the company without cause (as defined in your existing employment agreement) or if you terminate your employment following the assignment to you of duties materially inconsistent with your position or following any actions by the company resulting in a material diminution of your position or duties, in either case after June 30 of any year, you will be paid a pro-rata portion (based on the number of days worked during the year divided by 365) of the annual bonus that otherwise would have been paid to you, at the time the bonus otherwise would have been paid to you, based upon the actual level of performance for such year).
The grants will be structured to enable you to retire upon the qualification of your successor as CEO without any adverse effect on the grants or your rights under the grants. However, notwithstanding anything in your existing employment agreement, should you resign or retire without the consent of the Board of Directors prior to February 28, 2010 (other than following the assignment to you of duties materially inconsistent with your position or following any actions by the company resulting in a material diminution of your position or duties), or should you be terminated for cause (as that term is defined in your existing employment agreement) at any time, the grants will be forfeited and the post-retirement vesting/earnout provisions of all other long-term incentive grants that you might have received (whether or not vested and including, but not limited to, stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units and contingent performance awards) will be cancelled without payment and have no further force or effect (though of course you will retain amounts under grants that had already been exercised and shares and units as to which the forfeiture restrictions shall have lapsed). For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding anything in your existing employment agreement, if your employment is terminated by the company before February 28, 2010 without cause (as that term is defined in your existing employment agreement), if your employment is terminated before February 28, 2010 by reason of disability (as that term is defined in your existing employment agreement) or death, if you voluntarily terminate employment before February 28, 2010 following the assignment to you of duties materially inconsistent with your position or following any actions by the company resulting in a material diminution of your position or duties, or if you resign before February 28, 2010 upon the appointment of a successor CEO, all incentive awards that are not performance based shall vest in full upon such termination, while all incentive awards that are performance based shall continue in force in accordance with their terms. Also, if your employment is terminated by the company
 
without cause, or by you voluntarily following a diminution of your position or duties, or if your employment is terminated due to your death or disability, the unvested balances (if any) of your non-qualified retirement plans shall become fully vested upon such termination. Moreover, in the event there is a change in control of the company after the expiration of your existing employment agreement at the end of its current term, the incentive awards you then hold will be treated in a manner no less favorable than the treatment of awards then held by other senior management of the company.
Finally, the company will permit you and your dependents, at your expense with respect to the full cost of the applicable coverage, to participate in the company's health and dental plans as in effect from time to time (to the extent permitted under the terms of such plans and further to the extent such participation would not cause an adverse tax consequence to any of the company's other current or former employees) after February 28, 2010 (or, if earlier, at such time as you otherwise lose coverage under the company's health and dental plans following a termination of employment) until the time you and your spouse each become eligible for coverage under Medicare or a plan of a subsequent employer (unless your employment is terminated before February 28, 2010 by the company for cause (as that term is defined in your existing employment agreement)). If the company's health and dental plans do not permit you and your spouse to participate following your retirement (or to the extent such participation would cause an adverse tax consequence to any of the company's other current or former employees), the company will reimburse you (or your spouse, as the case may be) for any costs incurred in obtaining coverage comparable to that available under the company's health and dental plans as in effect from time to time in excess of what you or your spouse would have had to pay to participate in the company's health and dental plans pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence.
We believe that this package of enhanced long-term incentives is appropriately performance oriented, creates a strong incentive for you to prepare the company for the future, and presents a very sizable potential addition to your total compensation should you succeed in doing so. We are prepared to move as quickly as possible to implement the plans. Of course, the application of your existing employment agreement to the disposition of incentive compensation awards following termination of employment is modified to the extent inconsistent with the foregoing provisions of this letter agreement (though the existing employment agreement otherwise shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms until the end of its current term), and following the expiration of your existing employment agreement at the end of its current term, that agreement will be of no further force or effect and your employment status will be "at will," provided of course that the company's obligations under Section 11 (titled, "Indemnification") of your existing employment agreement will survive the expiration of that agreement.
Award agreements will memorialize the terms and conditions of the long-term incentive grants as described above together with your and the company's other respective obligations under each such grant in accordance with the company's standard practices.
 
Flowserve is certainly in a strong position today, and headed in the right direction. But there is still much that needs to be done. You have already led the company to significant performance improvements, and we are confident that you will lead us to even greater heights in the years ahead. We look forward to working with you to help you achieve that goal.
Please acknowledge your acceptance of the terms of this letter agreement by countersigning below where indicated. This letter agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Very truly yours,
Chairman, Organization and Compensation Committee Flowserve Corporation
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Dallas  May 30, 2007  Flowserve Corp. (NYSE: FLS), announced today that the company has entered into an employment extension agreement with its President and CEO, Lewis M. Kling. Under the extension, Kling has agreed to be available to serve in this capacity until February 28, 2010, when he turns age 65. Prior to the extension, Kling's agreement was subject to expiration on July 31, 2008.
"Flowserve has made tremendous progress under Lew's leadership," said Kevin E. Sheehan, Chairman of the Board. "Our Board is very pleased to enter into this extension with Lew," he added.
The company said that a copy of this extension agreement has been filed with the SEC and is available for public review. The company noted that the extension provides for long-term incentives for Mr. Kling that will require the attainment of performance-based goals for vesting.
Flowserve Corporation World Headquarters
5215 North O'Connor Boulevard Suite 2300 Irving, Texas 75039 USA
Phone 972-443-6500 Facsimile 972-443-6800 www.flowserve.com
 
"I am delighted to finalize this extension with the company," Kling said. "With our strong product offerings, proven management team and excellent global employee base, I believe that Flowserve is very well positioned for higher levels of success in the future," he added.
About Flowserve
Flowserve Corp. is one of the world's leading providers of fluid motion and control products and services. Operating in 56 countries, the company produces engineered and industrial pumps, seals and valves as well as a range of related flow management services.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT: This news release includes forward-looking statements. Forward looking statements are all statements that are not statements of historical facts and include, without limitation, statements relating to our business strategy and statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies and anticipated developments concerning our industry, business, operations and financial performance and condition. The words "believe", "seek", "anticipate", "plan", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "project", "forecast", "predict", "potential", "continue", "will", "may", "could", "should", and other words of similar meaning are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made in this news release are made pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that, in some cases, are beyond our control. These risks, uncertainties and factors may cause our actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results and market trends, to be materially different from any future results, performance, achievements or trends expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Important risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: delays in future reports of the Company's management and outside auditors on the Company's internal control over financial reporting and related certifications; continuing delays in the Company's filing of its periodic public reports and any SEC, NYSE or debt rating agencies' actions resulting therefrom; the possibility of adverse consequences of the pending securities litigation; the possibility of adverse consequences related to the investigations by the SEC and foreign authorities regarding our participation in the United States Oil-for-Food program; the possibility of adverse consequences of governmental tax audits of the Company's tax returns, including the upcoming IRS audit of the company's U.S. tax returns for the years 2002 through 2004; the Company's ability to convert bookings, which are not subject to nor computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, into revenues at acceptable, if any, profit margins, since such profit margins cannot be assured nor be necessarily assumed to follow historical trends; changes in the financial markets and the availability of capital; changes in the already competitive environment for the Company's products or competitors' responses to the Company's strategies; the Company's ability to integrate acquisitions into its management and operations; political risks, military actions or trade embargoes affecting customer markets, including the continuing conflict in Iraq, uncertainties in certain Middle Eastern countries such as Iran, and their potential impact on Middle Eastern markets and global petroleum producers; the Company's ability to comply with the laws and regulations affecting its international operations, including the U.S. export laws, and the effect of any noncompliance; the health of the petroleum, chemical, power and water industries; economic conditions and the extent of economic growth in the U.S. and other countries and regions; unanticipated difficulties or costs associated with the implementation of systems, including software; the Company's relative geographical profitability and its impact on the Company's utilization of foreign tax credits; the recognition of significant expenses associated with realigning operations of acquired companies with those of Flowserve; the Company's ability to meet the financial covenants and other requirements in its debt
Flowserve Corporation World Headquarters
5215 North O'Connor Boulevard Suite 2300 Irving, Texas 75039 USA
Phone 972-443-6500 Facsimile 972-443-6800 www.flowserve.com
 
agreements; any terrorist attacks and the response of the U.S. to such attacks or to the threat of such attacks; technological developments in the Company's products as compared with those of its competitors; changes in prevailing interest rates and the Company's effective interest costs; and adverse changes in the regulatory climate and other legal obligations imposed on the Company. It is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. All forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on information available to us on the date of this news release. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement.
Flowserve Corporation World Headquarters
5215 North O'Connor Boulevard Suite 2300 Irving, Texas 75039 USA
Phone 972-443-6500 Facsimile 972-443-6800 www.flowserve.com


