FILE:FLS/FLS-8K-20080910103600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 9, 2008, Lew Kling, President and CEO of Flowserve Corporation, a New York corporation (the "Company"), delivered a personal message directed to all Company employees regarding the recent decline in the Company's stock price and encouraging continued focus on corporate goals and job-related objectives as the best approach for long-term success. A copy of the personal message from Mr. Kling is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FLOWSERVE CORPORATION
Dated: September 10, 2008
By: Ronald F. Shuff Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel
s/ Ronald F. Shuff                               
/
 

Exhibit 99.1
There has recently been significant volatility in the U.S. stock market. And, as I'm sure you are aware, a decrease in Flowserve's stock price has been a part of this volatility.
I feel it is very important for you to know that I believe that this decrease is not based on any specific event or results announced by Flowserve.
Our core strategies, strengths and business fundamentals have not changed. We are a global infrastructure products company, with one of the greatest footprints and largest product portfolios in the industry. And, while stock markets can be volatile at times in the short term, history has consistently shown that high performing companies, delivering strong financial results over the long term, are rewarded with a higher stock price than lower performers.
Together we have built a company with an outstanding reputation in our industry, leading brands and technology, as well as the engineering and product capabilities to continue to be a leader into the future. In addition, we have worked hard together over recent years to set increasingly greater records for bookings, sales and net profits. These financial results arise from strength in our organizational capability, our execution of manufacturing requirements, our product and engineering expertise and, most importantly, our ability to meet our customers' needs. We must continue to execute in these fundamental areas in order to continue our excellent financial results.
I would ask that each and every one of us stay focused on our corporate goals and our job-related objectives during this time of stock market volatility. Let's continue to focus and execute on the things that we have control over, while continuing to be the leader that our customers expect. The success of a corporation like Flowserve is not measured day-to-day, but rather over the course of many years. I am confident that, as a company with over 200 years of history, we will continue to do the things necessary to meet our objectives in order to position ourselves for increasing success in the future.
Thanks to all of you for your hard work and dedication to Flowserve. You have helped grow the size and profitability of this company while providing great value to our customerswhich will continue to be the path towards future success.
Managers: Please print and post this announcement for associates who do not have access to e-mail.


