FILE:FLS/FLS-8K-20090831172723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
          On August 31, 2009, the Board of Directors of Flowserve Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mark A. Blinn as its next President and Chief Executive Officer, effective October 1, 2009, and announcing Mr. Blinn's appointment as a member of the Board of Directors to serve until the next annual meeting of the Company's shareholders, effective immediately.
          Mr. Blinn currently serves as the Company's Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Latin America Operations. Prior to his service with the Company, he was employed as the Chief Financial Officer of FedEx Kinko's Office and Print Services, Inc., an international shipping and printing company, from 2003 to 2004 and as Vice President and Treasurer of Kinko's, Inc. from 2002 to 2003. Mr. Blinn also served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Centex Corporation, a home building company, from 2000 to 2002 and as Managing Director of Corporate Finance beginning in 1999.
          In connection with Mr. Blinn's appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, the Company entered into a Letter Agreement with Mr. Blinn, dated August 31, 2009, (the "Blinn Agreement"). The Blinn Agreement provides that Mr. Blinn's current employment agreement with the Company dated May 7, 2007, as amended, will be terminated effective October 1, 2009, and Mr. Blinn's employment with the Company thereafter will be on an at-will basis. The Blinn Agreement further sets forth certain compensatory terms relating to Mr. Blinn's new position, including:
          The Blinn Agreement also provides that if Mr. Blinn's employment is terminated without cause or in connection with a change in control of the Company, then such termination will be governed by the terms of the Company's Officer Severance Plan and the Company's Executive Officer Change-in-Control Plan, respectively. Additionally, the Blinn Agreement states that the existing Restrictive Covenants Agreement between Mr. Blinn and the Company will continue to remain in full effect.
          The foregoing description of the Blinn Agreement should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the Blinn Agreement, a copy of which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
          The Company also announced in its August 31, 2009 press release that Lewis M. Kling, the Company's current President and Chief Executive Officer, will retire from these positions (but not from employment) effective October 1, 2009. Pursuant to a Letter Agreement, dated August 31, 2009, between Mr. Kling and the Company (the "Kling Agreement"), Mr. Kling agreed to continue as an employee of the Company and as Vice Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors until February 28, 2010, the date Mr. Kling's term as President and Chief Executive Officer expires under his existing letter agreement dated May 29, 2007 (the "Existing Agreement").
          The Kling Agreement further provides that, consistent with the Existing Agreement, Mr. Kling will retire as an employee and will resign from the Board of Directors on February 28, 2010. Additionally, Mr. Kling's and the Company's obligations regarding compensation and term of employment under the Existing Agreement will remain the same after Mr. Kling relinquishes the titles and responsibilities of President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Kling's rights and obligations upon ultimate termination will be determined as if he served as President and Chief Executive Officer through the end of the Existing Agreement's term.
          The foregoing description of the Kling Agreement should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the Kling Agreement, a copy of which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as
 
Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
          On August 31, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Company voted to amend the Flowserve Corporation By-Laws, effective as of the same date. The amendment adopted by the Board of Directors reduces the number of directors of the Company from thirteen to twelve. This description of the amendment should be read in conjunction with the Flowserve Corporation By-Laws, a copy of which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
          The press release issued by the Company on August 31, 2009 announcing the foregoing events is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
     The principal business office of Flowserve Corporation (the "Company") shall be located in the City of Irving, Dallas County, Texas, and at such place therein as may be determined and designated from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"). The Company may also have an office or offices at such other place or places as the Board may, from time to time, designate or as the business of the Company may require.
          Section 1. The annual meeting of shareholders of the Company for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, shall be held on such date and at such hour and place, within or without the State of New York, as shall be determined by the Board and stated in the notice of the meeting. The Board acting by resolution may postpone and reschedule any previously scheduled annual meeting of shareholders.
Annual Meeting.
          Section 2. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock, special meetings of the shareholders, for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation, may be called by the Board, the Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Chief Executive Officer and shall be called by the Secretary at the request in writing of a majority of the directors currently in office. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes and the place, date and hour of the meeting to be called. Special meetings shall be held on such date and at such hour and place, within or without the State of New York, as may be stated in the notice of meeting given in accordance with the call and these By-Laws. The Board acting by resolution may postpone and reschedule any previously scheduled special meeting of shareholders.
Special Meetings.
          Section 3. Notice of the place, date and hour and purpose or purposes of any meeting of shareholders shall be given personally, by mail or electronically, not less than 10 or more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, to each shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting. If mailed, the notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the shareholder at the shareholder's address as it appears on the record of shareholders of the Company, unless the shareholder shall have filed
Notice of Meetings.
 
with the Secretary of the Company a written request that notices to the shareholder be mailed to a different address, in which case it shall be mailed to the address designated in such request. If transmitted electronically, the notice shall be deemed given when directed to the shareholder's electronic mail address as supplied by the shareholder to the Secretary of the Company or as otherwise directed pursuant to the shareholder's authorization or instructions. Any and all notices of a meeting may be waived by a shareholder by submitting a written or electronic waiver either before or after the meeting. The attendance of any shareholder at a meeting in person or by proxy, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by such shareholder.
          Section 4. Except as otherwise provided by law, at a meeting of the shareholders, the holders of a majority of the votes of outstanding shares of stock of the Company, entitled to vote at such meeting, whether present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. If at any meeting there shall be no quorum, such holders of a majority of the votes of outstanding shares of stock so present or represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as first convened had there been a quorum.
Quorum.
          Section 5.
Voting and Inspectors.
     (a) Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, at each meeting of the shareholders, each holder of record of outstanding shares of stock of the Company on the record date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held of record either in person or by proxy. No proxy shall be valid after the expiration of 11 months from the date of its execution unless the shareholder executing the proxy shall have specified therein the length of time it is to continue in force which shall be for some limited period. Except as otherwise provided by law, at elections of directors at an annual or special meeting of shareholders at which a quorum is present, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election. Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, any other action at an annual or special meeting of shareholders at which a quorum is present shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such action by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon.
     (b) Before any meeting of shareholders, the Board shall appoint one or more inspectors of election to act at the meeting or its adjournment and make a written report. If the Board does not make such appointment, or if the person or persons are unable to act at the meeting, then the person presiding at the meeting shall make such appointment. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the inspector's duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of the inspector's ability, and who shall take charge of the polls and after the balloting shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken. No director of the Company or candidate for the office of director shall be appointed as an inspector of elections.
          Section 6. For the purpose of determining the shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express
Record Date.
 
consent to or dissent from any proposal without a meeting, or for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or the allotment of any rights, or for the purpose of any other action, the Board may, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law, fix a date as the record date for any such determination of shareholders, which date shall not be more than 60 or less than 10 days prior to the date of any meeting of the shareholders or more than 60 days prior to the payment of any dividend or the allotment of any rights or any other action; and in such case only holders of record of stock at the time so fixed shall be entitled to notice of or to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof or to express their consent or dissent, or to receive such dividend distribution or rights, as the case may be. If no record date is fixed, (a) the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the day immediately prior to the day on which notice is given, or if no notice is given, the day on which the meeting is held and (b) the record date for any purpose other than that specified in clause (a) shall be at the close of business on the day on which the resolution of the Board relating thereto is adopted.
          Section 7.
Conduct of Meeting.
     (a) Meetings of shareholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, or in such person's absence, by a person designated by the Board. The Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Company shall act as secretary of every meeting, but if neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint a secretary of the meeting.
     (b) The Board shall be entitled to make such rules or regulations for the conduct of meetings of shareholders as it shall deem necessary, appropriate or convenient. Subject to such rules and regulations of the Board, if any, the chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman of the meeting, are necessary, appropriate or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, establishing an agenda or order of business for the meeting, rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present, limitations on participation in the meeting to shareholders of record of the Company, their duly authorized and constituted proxies and such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall permit, restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants and regulation of the opening and closing of the polls for balloting and matters that are to be voted on by ballot.
          Section 8.
Notice of Shareholder Business and Nominations.
     (a) Annual Meeting.
               (i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders only (A) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (B) by or at the direction of the Board (or any committee thereof) or (C) by a shareholder of the Company who is a shareholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 8 is delivered to the Secretary of the Company, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the
 
notice procedures set forth in this Section 8. For the avoidance of doubt, clause (C) above shall be the exclusive means for a shareholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and included in the Company's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of shareholders.
               (ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to Section 8(a)(i)(C) of this Article II, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Company and such business must be a proper subject for shareholder action under the New York Business Corporation Law (the "NYBCL"). To be considered timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to the Secretary of the Company at the principal business office of the Company not less than 90 or more than 120 days before the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting of shareholders; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be considered timely must be so delivered not more than 120 days before the annual meeting and not less than the later of (1) 90days before such annual meeting or (2) 10days following the date on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Company. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
               Such shareholder's notice shall set forth:
 
 
 
               For purposes of this Section 8, "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, trust or other entity (including any successor thereto).
               For purposes of this Section 8, "Shareholder Associated Person" shall mean (A) any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with, or acting in concert with, a given shareholder, beneficial owner, shareholder nominee and their respective Affiliates and Associates (as defined under Regulation 12B of the Exchange Act or any successor provision), (B) any beneficial owner of any securities of the Company owned of record or beneficially by a given shareholder and (C) any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with any person identified under clause (B).
     (b) Special Meetings. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting.
     (c) General.
               (i) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting of shareholders of the Company to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (A) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8 (including whether the shareholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group that solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such shareholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such shareholder's representation as
 
required by Section 8(a)(ii)(C)(5) of this Article II) and (B) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Section 8, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 8, unless otherwise required by law, if the shareholder (or a qualified representative of the shareholder) does not appear at the annual meeting of shareholders to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Company. For purposes of this Section 8, to be considered a qualified representative of the shareholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such shareholder or authorized by a writing executed by such shareholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such shareholder to act for such shareholder as proxy at the meeting of shareholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of shareholders.
               (ii) For purposes of this Section 8, a "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
          Section 1. . Subject to the provisions of the NYBCL, and to any limitations in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws relating to action required to be approved by the shareholders, the business of the Company shall be managed under the direction of the Board.
Powers
          Section 2. Until changed in the manner hereinafter set forth, the number of directors of the Company shall be twelve. The number of directors of the Company may be increased or decreased by amendment of these By-Laws adopted by the shareholders or the Board.
Number, Classification and Terms of Directors.
     The directors shall be classified with respect to their terms of office by dividing them into three classes. All classes shall be nearly equal in number as possible. Subject to such limitations, the size of each class may be fixed by action of the shareholders or the Board.
     No decrease in the number of directors, and no change in the size of any class, shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
     At each annual meeting of shareholders, the directors elected to replace those directors whose terms expire at such annual meeting shall be elected to hold office until the third succeeding annual meeting or such other full year term as designated by the Board. Any other director elected at any meeting of shareholders shall hold office until the expiration of the term in office of the other members of the same class to which such director is elected.
 
     Each director shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which such director is elected, and until such director's successor has been elected and qualified.
          Section 3. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws:
Vacancies.
     (a) Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors and vacancies may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.
     (b) If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible.
     Any directors chosen pursuant to this Section 3 shall hold office until the next meeting of shareholders at which the election of directors is in the regular order of business and until such director's successor has been elected and qualified.
          Section 4.
Meetings of the Board.
     (a) Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times as may from time to time be fixed by the Board, and notice of such meetings need not be given. All such meetings shall be held at the principal business office of the Company unless otherwise specified by the resolution.
     (b) Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Board, the Corporate Governance Committee the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Chief Executive Officer at any time, and shall be called by the Secretary of the Company when requested to do so by written notice signed by a majority of the Board. Notice of the place, date and hour of each special meeting of the Board shall be provided to each director personally, by mail, facsimile or telephone, or electronically. If mailed, the notice shall be addressed to the director at such director's last known address as it appears on the records of the Secretary of the Company and mailed not less than three days before the date of the meeting. If delivered by facsimile or electronically, the notice shall be sent not less than 24 hours before the time of the meeting. If delivered personally or by telephone, the notice shall be given not less than eight hours before the time of the meeting. An affidavit of the person giving notice stating that notice has been given as herein required, and the manner in which given, shall be filed with the Secretary of the Company and shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated. A notice of special meeting need not state the purpose of such meeting and, unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting.
          Section 5. A stated meeting of the Board, to be known as their annual meeting, shall be held each year on the day of the annual shareholders' meeting and, at such meeting, the officers of the Company for the ensuing year shall be elected. If a quorum of the directors is not present on the date appointed for the annual meeting, the meeting shall be adjourned to some convenient day.
Annual Meeting of Directors.
 
          Section 6. One-third (1/3) of the entire Board, but not less than three, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as first convened had there been a quorum. The acts of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall, unless otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by the By-Laws, be the acts of the Board.
Quorum; Voting.
          Section 7. The Board, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, may designate from among its members an executive committee and other committees, each consisting of one or more directors. The resolution designating any such committee shall fix its powers and authority. Any such committee may have all or any of the authority of the Board to the extent provided in the resolution designating such committee subject to applicable law and listing standards, and except that no such committee shall have authority as to the following matters:
Committees.
     (a) the submission to shareholders of any action that needs shareholders' approval;
     (b) the filling of vacancies in the Board or in any committee of the Board;
     (c) the fixing of compensation of the Directors for serving on the Board or any committee of the Board;
     (d) the amendment or repeal of the By-Laws of the Company, or the adoption of new By-Laws; and
     (e) the amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board which by its terms shall not be so amendable or repealable.
     The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any such committee, who may replace any absent member or members at any meeting of such committee.
     Each such committee and the members thereof shall serve at the pleasure of the Board; and the Board may at any time fill vacancies in, change the membership of, or dissolve any such committee, subject to applicable law and listing standards.
     An act or authorization of an act by any such committee within the authority of the committee provided for in the resolution designating such committee shall be as effective for all purposes as the act or authorization of Board. One-third (1/3) of the members of any such committee, but not less than two, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Any such committee may act by a majority of its members at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
          Section 8. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or the committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing the action. The resolution and the written consents thereto by the members of the
Action by Unanimous Written Consent.
 
Board or committee shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or committee.
          Section 9. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of shareholders and directors, and shall perform such other and further duties as may from time to time be required of him by the Board. If the Chairman of the Board is not present at a meeting of the Board, another director chosen by the Board shall preside.
Chairman of the Board.
          Section 10. Each director of the Company who is not a salaried officer or employee of the Company may receive a reasonable compensation for such director's services as a director as determined by the Board.
Compensation.
          Section 11.
Resignation and Removal.
     (a) Any director may resign at any time upon notice given in writing or by electronic transmission to the Chairman of the Board. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified in such notice or, if the time be not specified, upon receipt thereof by the Chairman of the Board. Unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
     (b) Unless otherwise restricted by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any director may be removed from office as a director, but only for cause, by the holders of a majority of the votes of outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote at an election of directors or by a majority of the entire Board.
          Section 12. Any one or more members of the Board or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the Board or such committee by means of a telephone conference or similar electronic communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting.
Meetings by Telephonic Participation.
          Section 1. The officers of the Company may consist of a Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, one or more Vice Presidents, any one or more of whom may be designated a Senior or Executive Vice President, a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other officers as the Board may determine. Any two offices may be held by the same person.
Officers and Qualifications.
          Section 2. All officers of the Company shall be elected annually by the Board at its annual meeting. Each such individual shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board and until his or her successor has been elected and qualified but any such individual may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board then in office. The Board shall determine or oversee the determination of the compensation to be paid to the officers.
Election, Term and Compensation.
 
          Section 3. The Chief Executive Officer shall have general charge, supervision and control of the business and affairs of the Company, and of the officers and employees of the Company; all subject to such limitations as the Board may from time to time prescribe.
Chief Executive Officer.
          Section 4. The President shall, unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board, be the chief operating officer of the Company, with general responsibility for the management and control of the operations of the Company, subject to such limitations as the Board may from time to time prescribe. The President shall perform such other and further duties as may from time to time be required of such person by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board.
President.
          Section 5. Subject to such limitations as the Board may from time to time prescribe, all of the other officers of the Company shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, as well as such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board.
Other Officers.
          Section 1. The interest of each shareholder shall either be uncertificated or evidenced by a certificate or certificates for shares of stock of the Company in such form as the Board may from time to time prescribe. The issuance of shares in uncertificated form shall not affect shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Company. The certificates of stock shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, President or a Vice President and the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and may be sealed with the seal of the Company, and shall be countersigned and registered in such manner, if any, as the Board may by resolution prescribe. The signatures of the officers upon a certificate and the seal of the Company upon such certificate, may be facsimiles. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Company with the same effect as if such person were such officer at the date of issue.
Certificates for Shares.
          Section 2. Certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of the Company shall be transferred on the books of the Company upon authorization by the registered holder thereof or such holder's duly authorized attorney, upon surrender and cancellation of certificates for a like number of shares with duly executed power to transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, or upon proper assignment in the case of uncertificated shares; provided, however, that the Company shall be entitled to recognize and enforce any lawful restriction on transfer.
Transfer of Shares.
          Section 3. No certificate for shares of stock or uncertificated shares of the Company shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except upon production of such evidence of the loss, theft or destruction, and upon indemnification of the Company and its agents to such extent in such manner as the Board may from time to time prescribe.
Lost or Destroyed Stock Certificates.
 
     All checks and drafts on the Company's bank accounts and all bills of exchange and promissory notes, and all acceptances, obligations and other instruments for payment of money shall be signed by such officer or officers, employee or employees, or agent or agents as shall be designated from time to time either by (a) the Board or (b) by any officer or officers specifically authorized by the Board to make such designations. The signatures of any or all of such signatories may be facsimile signatures and printed, engraved, stamped or otherwise placed upon any such instrument or writing.
     The fiscal year of the Company shall commence with the first day of January and end with the last day of December in each year.
     The Board shall provide a suitable seal, containing the name of the Company.
          Section 1. The Company shall indemnify and advance expenses to any present or future director or officer from and against any and all liabilities and expenses to the broadest and maximum extent permitted by the NYBCL as the same presently exists or to the greater extent permitted by any amendment hereafter adopted.
Rights to Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses.
          Section 2. The Company may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board and stated in Company policy, grant rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to any employee or agent of the Company on such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Board.
Employees and Agents.
          Section 3. The Company is hereby authorized to extend rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to any person to whom the Company is permitted by applicable law to provide indemnification or the advancement of expenses by resolution of the shareholders, resolution of the Board, or by an agreement.
Resolutions; Agreements.
          Section 4. . The rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses conferred by this Article IX shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights of indemnification or advancement of expenses that any person may have or hereafter acquire under
Nonexclusivity
 
any statute or which the Company may confer by means of the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, a resolution of shareholders or directors, or an agreement providing for indemnification or advancement of expenses or otherwise.
          Section 5. The Company may maintain insurance, at its expense, and to the fullest extent authorized by the NYBCL, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or any other corporation of any type or kind, domestic or foreign, or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liabilities, expenses or losses, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such liabilities, expenses or losses under the NYBCL.
Insurance.
     Subject to any provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company requiring a greater proportion of votes, By-Laws of the Company may be adopted, amended or repealed at any meeting of shareholders at which a quorum is present by vote of the holders of a majority of the shares voted thereon. Notice of the proposed change shall be given in the notice of such meeting. The Board may, by vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the entire Board, adopt, amend or repeal By-Laws of the Company and may amend or repeal these By-Laws.
     All powers, duties and responsibilities provided for in these By-Laws, whether or not explicitly so qualified, are qualified by the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law.
 
     I, Ronald F. Shuff, hereby certify that the foregoing, comprising 14 pages, is a true, correct and complete copy of the Amended and Restated By-Laws of Flowserve Corporation adopted by its Board of Directors on August 31, 2009.

Exhibit 10.1
August 31, 2009
Mr. Mark A. Blinn Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Flowserve Corporation
Dear Mark:
On behalf of the Board of Directors of Flowserve Corporation ("Flowserve"), I am pleased to confirm that you will be appointed as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Flowserve effective October 1, 2009.
Effective upon your appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, your current employment agreement with Flowserve dated May 7, 2007, as amended as of November 19, 2008 and February 23, 2009, shall be terminated and cease to be of any further force or effect, and your employment with Flowserve thereafter will be on an at-will basis. Of course, your existing equity incentive compensation grants will remain outstanding in accordance with their terms and, to the extent you are eligible, you will participate (or continue to participate, as the case may be) in the various compensation and benefit programs maintained by Flowserve in accordance with their terms and conditions as in effect from time to time.
The existing restrictive covenant agreements between you and Flowserve executed in the past, and other agreements between you and Flowserve on your use of Flowserve's confidential information, your ability to work for a competitor, soliciting employees of Flowserve to leave Flowserve and soliciting business from Flowserve's customers all remain in effect.
A term sheet listing your new salary, new annual incentive target award rate and new long term incentive plan target award rate is attached hereto.
We are excited about this new chapter for Flowserve and have every confidence that you are the right person to lead Flowserve forward at this critical juncture. We look forward to a long and productive relationship.
Please acknowledge your acceptance of the terms of this letter agreement by countersigning below where indicated. This letter agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Very truly yours,
FLOWSERVE CORPORATION
 
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED
 
Term Sheet Items
$915,000, effective September 1, 2009
Salary:
100% (2009 Bonus prorated using his August 31 salary and CFO target for 9 months and his December 31 salary and CEO target for final 3 months.)
Target Bonus %:
st
300%
LTIP % Target:
Officer Severance Plan
Termination w/o Cause:
: Executive Officer CIC Plan
Termination w/CIC
Restrictive Covenants Form Agreement
Non-Compete:

Exhibit 10.2
August 31, 2009
Mr. Lewis M. Kling President and Chief Executive Officer Flowserve Corporation
Dear Lew:
The Board of Directors (the "Board") of Flowserve Corporation ("Flowserve") has been very pleased with the performance of Flowserve during your tenure as Flowserve's Chief Executive Officer ("CEO").
Therefore, your colleagues on the Board are happy that, although you have decided to retire as CEO (plus from any other management or director positions that you currently hold with any affiliates of Flowserve) effective October 1, 2009, you have agreed to continue as an employee and as Vice Chairman of the Board of Flowserve until February 28, 2010, the date of the expiration of your term as CEO under your letter agreement dated May 29, 2007 (the "Letter Agreement") with Flowserve.
It is understood that, consistent with your wishes, you will retire as an employee on February 28, 2010 and in any event will resign from the Board when you cease to be an employee.
Your and Flowserve's rights and obligations under the Letter Agreement will remain the same when you relinquish the titles and responsibilities as President and CEO and continue as an employee and Vice Chairman of the Board. Upon termination of your employment, your rights and obligations upon termination will be determined as if you had continued to serve as Flowserve's CEO through February 28, 2010 under the terms and conditions of the Letter Agreement.
The Board wants to take this opportunity to formally thank you for your exemplary service as our CEO. Your personal leadership was key to the many successes achieved by Flowserve during your tenure as CEO, which will long be favorably remembered.
Please acknowledge your acceptance of the terms of this letter agreement by countersigning below where indicated. This letter agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Very truly yours,
FLOWSERVE CORPORATION
 
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Investor Contact: Paul Fehlman, Vice President Financial Planning & Analysis and Investor Relations (972) 443-6517 Media Contact: Lars Rosene, Chief Sustainability Officer and Vice President Public Affairs (469) 420-3264
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
DALLAS, August 31, 2009  Flowserve Corporation (NYSE: FLS), a leading provider of flow control products and services for the global infrastructure markets, today announced that its Board of Directors has named Mark A. Blinn, 47, as its next President and Chief Executive Officer, beginning October 1, 2009 and as a member of the Board of Directors, effective immediately.
The company also announced that Lewis M. Kling, the company's current President and Chief Executive, who's previously announced retirement is scheduled for February, 2010, has been elected Vice Chairman of the Board effective October 1.
"I have worked very closely with, and relied upon Mark as our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Latin American Operations for over four years," said Kling. "He is an outstanding global executive and is ready to lead the company. The timing of this transition will enable Mark, with my support, to effectively drive the Company's 2010 strategic and financial planning processes, which are now getting underway. It will also allow five months for transition and my oversight before my planned retirement from Flowserve this coming February."
Blinn joined Flowserve in 2004 as Chief Financial Officer after serving in the same capacity at Kinko's prior to its acquisition by FedEx. He earned a B.S. degree from the school of engineering, a J.D. in law and an M.B.A. from Southern Methodist University in Dallas. In
 
addition to his role as CFO with Flowserve, Blinn has also been in charge of Latin America operations for the company since October, 2007.
Flowserve non-executive Chairman of the Board, James O. Rollans said, "Our Board has been extremely pleased with Lew's effectiveness as Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer. Over his four-year tenure revenues have grown consistently, nearly doubling, while net profits have grown ten fold, and we now have a world class operation and organization. In addition to the outstanding financial performance, Lew has also prepared Mark well as his successor. The Board is confident that Mark and the Company's outstanding executive leadership team will drive Flowserve to even higher levels of value creation for our shareholders."
Kling, who will retire on his 65 birthday in February, has been working closely with the board on a succession planning strategy since early 2008. "I am very proud of what Flowserve employees have accomplished over the past four years. I am now looking forward to supporting a smooth transition for our employees, customers and shareholders. As Vice Chairman, I will be able to be actively engaged at the board level, as well as support the management team as they begin the planning process for 2010," Kling added.
th
Blinn stated, "It is truly an honor to be selected by the Board for this leadership role, and I am excited about the opportunity to lead Flowserve, which has an outstanding team of employees, proven products, financial strength and an excellent customer base throughout the world. I am also grateful to Lew for his insightful guidance over the years and his continued assistance, as well as the Board members for their confidence in me. I am eager to assume my new responsibilities and firmly believe that Flowserve's executive management team and dedicated employees are the best in our industry and will continue to support our industry leadership and growth into the future."
About Flowserve Corp.
Flowserve Corp. is one of the world's leading providers of fluid motion and control products and services. Operating in more than 55 countries, the company produces engineered and industrial pumps, seals and valves as well as a range of related flow management services. More information about Flowserve can be obtained by visiting the company's Web site at
www.flowserve.com.
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Words or phrases such as, "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "predicts" or other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which include, without limitation, earnings forecasts, statements relating to our business strategy and statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies and anticipated developments concerning our industry, business, operations and financial performance and condition. The forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on our current expectations, projections, estimates and assumptions. These statements are only predictions, not guarantees. Such forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from what is forecast in such forward-looking statements, and include, without limitation, the following: a portion of our bookings may not lead to completed sales, and our ability to convert bookings into revenues at acceptable profit margins; risks associated with cost overruns on fixed-fee projects and in taking customer orders for large complex custom engineered products requiring sophisticated program management skills and technical expertise for completion; the substantial dependence of our sales on the success of the petroleum, chemical, power and water industries; the adverse impact of volatile raw materials prices on our products and operating margins; economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations, including military actions or trade embargoes that could affect customer markets, particularly Middle Eastern markets and global petroleum producers, and non-compliance with U.S. export/re-export control, foreign corrupt practice laws, economic sanctions and import laws and regulations; our furnishing of products and services to nuclear power plant facilities; potential adverse consequences resulting from litigation to which we are a party, such as litigation involving asbestos-containing material claims; a foreign government investigation regarding our participation in the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program; risks associated with certain of our foreign subsidiaries conducting business operations and sales in certain countries that have been identified by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism; our relative geographical profitability and its impact on our utilization of deferred tax assets, including foreign tax credits, and tax liabilities that could result from audits of our tax returns by regulatory authorities in various tax jurisdictions; the potential adverse impact of an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles; our dependence upon third-party suppliers whose failure to perform timely could adversely affect our business operations; our dependence on our customers' ability to make required capital investment and maintenance expenditures; the highly competitive nature of the markets in which we operate; environmental compliance costs and liabilities; potential work stoppages and other labor matters; our inability to protect our intellectual property in the U.S., as well as in foreign countries; obligations under our defined benefit pension plans; and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT:
 
All forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


