FILE:FLS/FLS-8K-20100429060121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     As previously disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 of Flowserve Corporation (the "Company"), the Company reorganized its divisional operations by combining Flowserve Pump Division ("FPD") and Flow Solutions Division ("FSD") into the new Flow Solutions Group ("FSG"), effective January 1, 2010. FSG has been divided into two reportable segments based on type of product that we now refer to as the FSG Engineered Product Division ("EPD") and FSG Industrial Product Division ("IPD"). EPD includes the longer lead-time, highly engineered pump product operations of the former FPD and substantially all of the mechanical seal operations of the former FSD. IPD consists of the more standardized, general purpose pump product operations of the former FPD. The Company's third reporting segment, Flow Control Division ("FCD"), which contains industrial valve and related automation products and solutions, remains unchanged. Beginning with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, the Company will report its financial information reflecting the three reporting segments of EPD, IPD and FCD, and prior periods will be retrospectively adjusted as periodic reports are filed to conform to the new reportable segment structure.
     To assist investors in comparing the Company's historical segment financial information with the Company's future segment financial information, Exhibit 99.1 filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K includes retrospectively adjusted unaudited selected segment financial information for EPD, IPD and All Other (which includes the Company's corporate headquarters costs and other minor entities that do not constitute separate segments) for each of the four quarters of the year ended December 31, 2009, and for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 


