FILE:FLS/FLS-8K-20110610165027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On June 7, 2011, Richard J. Guiltinan, Jr., Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Accounting Officer, Office of the Chief Financial Officer, formally informed Flowserve Corporation (the "Company") of his decision to retire in 2012. The exact date of Mr. Guiltinan's retirement is not yet determined. The Company has commenced an external search for a new Chief Financial Officer to replace the Company's current Office of the Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Guiltinan has advised the Company that he will remain in his current positions and continue to serve as the Company's principal financial officer and principal accounting officer for external reporting purposes until the Company's new Chief Financial Officer is appointed, which the Company hopes to accomplish before the end of 2011. Following the appointment of the Company's new Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Guiltinan plans to remain with the Company and report to the new Chief Financial Officer for a period of time to facilitate an orderly transition. Dean Freeman, who currently serves in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer with Mr. Guiltinan, will remain with the Company as an officer with the title of Vice President and Treasurer after the new Chief Financial Officer is appointed.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


