FILE:FLS/FLS-8K-20120911122055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Notes Offering and Indenture
On September 11, 2012, Flowserve Corporation, a New York corporation (the "Company"), completed a public offering of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "Notes"). The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by each of the Company's domestic subsidiaries that is a guarantor under the Company's primary bank credit facility (collectively, the "Guarantors"). If additional subsidiaries guarantee the Company's primary bank credit facility in the future, each such subsidiary also will be required to guarantee the Notes. The guarantee of any Guarantor may be released in certain circumstances, including if such Guarantor ceases to guarantee the Company's primary bank credit facility.
The Notes were issued under a Senior Indenture (the "Base Indenture"), dated as of September 11, 2012, among the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 11, 2012, among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, establishing the terms and providing for the issuance of the Notes (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture").
The Supplemental Indenture and form of the Notes, which is included therein, provide, among other things, that the Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.500% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing on March 15, 2013, and will mature on September 15, 2022.
The Company estimates that the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes will be approximately $493 million after deducting underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses payable by the Company. The Company used $250.0 million of the net proceeds to repay the loan agreement, dated as of June 15, 2012, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other lenders party thereto, providing for a term loan with an aggregate commitment of $250.0 million for a term of 364 days (the "Bridge Loan"). In connection with this repayment, the Bridge Loan was terminated. As of August 31, 2012, the interest rate per annum under the Bridge Loan was 2.237%. The Company expects to use the remaining portion of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, including repayment of all or a portion of the current balance on the Company's revolving credit facility under the credit agreement, dated August 20, 2012, with Bank of America, N.A., as swingline lender, letter of credit issuer and administrative agent, and the other lenders party thereto (the "Senior Credit Facility"), and the repurchase of shares of the Company's common stock.
At any time prior to June 15, 2022, the Company will have the right to redeem the Notes, in whole or in part from time to time, at the Company's option, at a "make-whole" redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest. At any time on or after June 15, 2022, the Company may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part from time to time, at the Company's option, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company is required to offer to repurchase the Notes for cash at a price of 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, upon the occurrence of a change of control triggering event.
The Indenture contains covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, limit the Company's ability to:
 
 
 
The Indenture contains customary events of default. If an event of default occurs and is continuing with respect to any series of the Notes, then the Trustee may, and at the direction of the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes shall, declare the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes to be due and payable immediately. In addition, in the case of an event of default arising from certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company, the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes will become due and payable immediately.
The description of the Indenture set forth above is qualified by reference to the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture filed as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Underwriting Agreement
The Notes were sold pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement, dated September 6, 2012, by and among the Company, the Guarantors and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representative of the several underwriters named therein (the ""). The offering of the Notes was made pursuant to the Company's automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-183634), which was automatically effective on August 30, 2012.
Underwriting Agreement
The Underwriting Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and the Guarantors, conditions to closing, indemnification rights and obligations of the parties and termination provisions.
Some of the underwriters and their affiliates have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, investment banking and other commercial dealings in the ordinary course of business with the Company or its affiliates. They have received, or may in the future receive, customary fees and commissions for these transactions. In particular, certain of the underwriters or their affiliates are lenders under the Senior Credit Facility and the Bridge Loan, and, in either case, will receive a portion of the proceeds from the offering of the Notes.
The description of the Underwriting Agreement set forth above is qualified by reference to the Underwriting Agreement filed as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K concerning the Bridge Loan is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.02.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-balance Sheet Arrangement.
The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K concerning the Notes, the Indenture and the related guarantees is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 6, 2012, the Company announced the proposed offering of the Notes and the pricing of the Notes. Copies of these press releases are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K furnished under this Item 7.01, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liability of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 11, 2012
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
September 6, 2012
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
INCORPORATED
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
c/o J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
383 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10179
Ladies and Gentlemen:
. Flowserve Corporation, a New York corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (the ""), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022 (the ""). J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (""), Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, collectively, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes. To the extent there are no additional underwriters listed on Schedule A to this Underwriting Agreement (this "") other than the Representatives, the term "Representatives" as used herein shall mean the Representatives as the Underwriters, and the terms "Representatives" and "Underwriters" shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires.
Introductory
Company
Underwriters
Notes
J.P. Morgan
Representatives
Agreement
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, to be dated as of September 11, 2012 (the ""), among the Company, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), as amended and supplemented by that certain First Supplemental Indenture, to be dated as of September 11, 2012, among the Company, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto (each a "" and collectively, the "") and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the ""). The Notes will be guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by each of the Subsidiary Guarantors pursuant to their guarantee set forth in the Indenture (each a "" and collectively, the ""). The Notes and the Guarantees are referred to herein collectively as the "."
Base Indenture
Trustee
Subsidiary Guarantor
Subsidiary Guarantors
Indenture
Guarantee
Guarantees
Securities
The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the ""), between the Company and the Depositary. The Notes, the Guarantees, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and this Agreement are referred to herein collectively as the "."
Depositary
DTC Agreement
Operative Documents
The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors have prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-183634), which contains a base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Securities, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule
Commission
Base Prospectus
Securities Act
 
415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "." The term "Prospectus" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered (the "") by the parties hereto. The term "" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 3:35 p.m., New York City time, on September 6, 2012 (the ""). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("").
Registration Statement
Execution Time
Preliminary Prospectus
Initial Sale Time
EDGAR
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
Exchange Act
The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby confirm their agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
SECTION 1. .
Representations and Warranties of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors
The Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors, jointly and severally, hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a ""), as follows:
Representation Date
a) . The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement became effective under the Securities Act upon filing with the Commission. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the Company's knowledge, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "").
Compliance with Registration Requirements
Trust Indenture Act
At each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any
 
amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to (i) that part of the Registration Statement which constitutes the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act and (ii) statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
b) . The term "" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated September 6, 2012, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Disclosure Package
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
c) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
d) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
 
e) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2) of the Securities Act) and (ii) as of the Initial Sale Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an "ineligible issuer."
Company Not Ineligible Issuer
f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Securities under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicts or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives and amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
g) . The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors have not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Securities, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities, other than the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto or any electronic road show or other written communications reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and listed on Annex II hereto (each, a ""). Each such Company Additional Written Communication, when taken together with the Disclosure Package, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Company Additional Written Communication based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Distribution of Offering Material by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors
Company Additional Written Communication
h) . There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights
i) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors.
Authorization of this Agreement
 
j) . The Base Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, enforceable against each of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium, or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles. The Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, enforceable against each of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium, or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Indenture
k) . On the Closing Date, the Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company will be in the form contemplated by the Indenture, will have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes
l) . The Guarantee by each Subsidiary Guarantor has been duly and validly authorized by such Subsidiary Guarantor and when duly endorsed on the Notes by such Subsidiary Guarantor in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and upon delivery to the Underwriters against payment therefor in accordance with the terms hereof, will constitute valid and binding obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor, enforceable against such Subsidiary Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, fraudulent conveyance or transfer, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, and other laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Guarantees
m) . The Notes, the Guarantees and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Securities and the Indenture
n) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change, or any development that would reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, management, business, properties or results of operations, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole (any such change is called a "").
No Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Change
o) . PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who has audited certain of the Company's financial statements incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are independent public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and is an independent registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants
 
p) . The Company, each Subsidiary Guarantor and each other subsidiary of the Company that is a significant subsidiary as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act (each, a "") has been duly incorporated or formed; is an existing corporation or other entity in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization, with power and authority (corporate or other organizational) to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus; and is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation or other entity in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect (i) on the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, management, business, properties or results of operations, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (ii) on the ability of the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors to perform their respective obligations under, and consummate the transactions contemplated by, this Agreement, the Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees (each, a ""). The Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors has all requisite power and authority (corporate and other organizational) to enter into the Operative Documents to which each is a party and to authorize, issue and sell the Notes and the Guarantees, as the case may be, as contemplated by this Agreement.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company, Subsidiary Guarantors and Significant Subsidiaries
Significant Subsidiary
Material Adverse Effect
q) . The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each Subsidiary Guarantor and of each Significant Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable and the shares of capital stock of each Subsidiary Guarantor and of each Significant Subsidiary are owned free from liens, encumbrances and defects, except as (i) would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Capitalization and Other Matters
r) . No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or registration or filing with, any governmental or regulatory authority or agency or body or any court with jurisdiction over the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any of their respective properties is required to be obtained or made by the Company or any of the Subsidiary Guarantors for the Company's or any Subsidiary Guarantor's execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in connection with the sale of the Securities, except such as have been obtained and made or will be obtained and made prior to the date hereof under the 1933 Act (provided, however, a filing with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b), Rule 430, Rule 430B or Rule 433 may be made after the date hereof so long as such filing is made within the time period specified in the applicable provision of such rule) and such as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws.
No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required
s) . None of the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors or any Significant Subsidiary is (i) in violation of its articles of incorporation, charter, by-laws or other constitutive documents, (ii) in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) ("") under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust, note, contract, franchise, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any Significant Subsidiary is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, an "") or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule or regulation, or any judgment, order or decree of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory body having jurisdiction over it or any of its properties, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, for such Defaults or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect or as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
No Conflicts
Default
Existing Instrument
 
The execution, delivery and performance of the Operative Documents by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, and consummation of the transactions herein contemplated, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other entity action and will not result in any violation of the articles of incorporation, charter or by-laws (or comparable constitutive documents) of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any Significant Subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any Significant Subsidiary pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule or regulation, or any judgment, order or decree of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory body having jurisdiction over it or any of its properties, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, for such Defaults or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect. As used herein, a "" means any event or condition which gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would give, the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) issued by the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any Significant Subsidiary, the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any Significant Subsidiary.
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
t) . Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and each of its subsidiaries has (A) good and indefeasible title to (in the case of fee interests in real property), (B) valid leasehold interests in (in the case of leasehold interests in real or personal property) and (C) valid title to (in the case of all other personal property), all of its respective properties and assets reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus free and clear of all liens, encumbrances and defects, except for such failures to have such title to or interests in, and for such liens, encumbrances and defects, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Properties
u) . The Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and each other subsidiary of the Company possess adequate certificates, authorities or permits issued by appropriate governmental agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
All Necessary Permits
v) . No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company exists or, to the knowledge of the Company or any of the Subsidiary Guarantors, is imminent and, to the knowledge of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, there is no existing or imminent labor dispute by the employees of the Company's or any of its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers that, in each case, would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
Labor Matters
w) . Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, to the Company's and the Subsidiary Guarantors' knowledge, the Company or its subsidiaries own or possess a valid right to use all patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patentable inventions, trade secret, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") used by the Company or its subsidiaries in the conduct of the Company's or any subsidiary of the Company's business as now conducted or as proposed in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus to be conducted, except where such failure to own or possess the valid right to use such Intellectual Property would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Intellectual Property Rights
 
x) . Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and except for such matters as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect:
Compliance with Environmental Laws
(i) the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the other subsidiaries of the Company (A) are conducting and have conducted their respective businesses, operations and facilities in compliance with Environmental Laws (as defined below); (B) possess, and are and have been in compliance with, any and all permits, licenses or registrations required under Environmental Laws for the conduct of their respective businesses or operations (""); (C) have not, pursuant to any contract or agreement, assumed any responsibility or obligation for any liability under any Environmental Laws or any presence, spill or release of any Hazardous Substances (as defined below), in each case, known to the Company or its subsidiaries; (D) have not received any written notice from a governmental authority or any other third party alleging any violation of any Environmental Law or liability thereunder (including, without limitation, liability as a "potentially responsible party" for costs of investigating or remediating property impacted by Hazardous Substances and/or for damages to natural resources); and (E) are not subject to any pending or, to the knowledge of the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors, threatened claim, action, suit or other legal proceeding under any Environmental Laws ("") against the Company or its subsidiaries or against any person or entity whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company or any of its subsidiaries has retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law;
Environmental Permits
Environmental Claim
(ii) to the knowledge of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, there are no recently-enacted Environmental Laws or unsatisfied conditions in any Environmental Permit that, individually or in the aggregate, can reasonably be expected to require any material capital expenditures in the current year or the next three (3) years to maintain the Company's or any of its subsidiaries' compliance with Environmental Laws or with their respective Environmental Permits;
(iii) the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the other subsidiaries of the Company do not rely on any third party for any indemnity for, or the contractual assumption of, any material remediation obligation or liability under Environmental Law, and the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors do not have reasonable cause to believe that any such third party will default in its obligation to comply with such indemnity or contractual assumption; and
(iv) the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors do not have reasonable cause to believe that any third party insurer will default in its obligation to comply with any insurance coverage with respect to any material remediation obligation or liability of the Company or any of its subsidiaries under Environmental Law.
As used in this paragraph, "Environmental Laws" means any federal, state, local, and foreign laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations, directives, requirements and common law, and any legally enforceable administrative or judicial interpretation, order, consent, decree or judgment thereof, relating to pollution or the protection of human health from exposure to Hazardous Substances or the environment, including, without limitation, those relating to, regulating, or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning (i) noise or odor, (ii) emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of Hazardous Substances into ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata, (iii) the generation, manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, release, transport or handling of, or exposure to, Hazardous Substances, (iv) the protection of wildlife or endangered or threatened species, or (v) the investigation, remediation or cleanup of, or exposure to, any Hazardous Substances. As used in this paragraph, "Hazardous Substances" means chemicals, pollutants,
 
contaminants or hazardous, dangerous, radioactive or toxic substances, materials, constituents or wastes, including petroleum, petroleum products and their breakdown constituents, asbestos and asbestos-containing materials, lead-based paint, or polychlorinated biphenyls.
y) . Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no pending actions, suits or proceedings against or affecting the Company, any subsidiary of the Company or any of their respective properties that, if determined adversely to the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; and no such actions, suits or proceedings are, to the Company's or any Subsidiary Guarantor's knowledge, threatened or contemplated. There are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to Company's knowledge, threatened that are required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package and are not so disclosed.
No Undisclosed Material Action or Proceeds
z) . The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, together with the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown, and such financial statements comply in all material respects as to form with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as otherwise noted therein or as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement. The summary financial information included in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein and have been derived from the financial statements included in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. The interactive data in eXtensible Business Reporting Language furnished with the Exchange Act filings incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus fairly presents the information called for in all material respects and has been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto. All non-GAAP financial information included in the Registration Statement, if any, complies with the requirements of Item 10 of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act.
Financial Statements and Financial Information
GAAP
aa) . None of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor is or, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, will be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Not an Investment Company
bb) The Company and the subsidiaries of the Company are insured by recognized, financially sound and reputable institutions with policies in such amounts and with such deductibles and covering such risks as are generally deemed adequate and customary for their businesses including, but not limited to, policies covering real and personal property owned or leased by the Company and the subsidiaries of the Company against theft, damage, destruction, acts of vandalism and earthquakes. All material policies of insurance insuring the Company and any of its subsidiaries or their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are in full force and effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments in all material respects; and, except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, there are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause. The Company has no reason to believe that it or any of its subsidiaries will not be able (i) to renew their respective existing insurance coverage as and when such policies expire or (ii) to obtain comparable coverage from similar institutions as may be necessary to conduct their respective businesses as now conducted and at a cost that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Insurance.
 
cc) . Prior to the date hereof, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates has taken any action which is designed to or which has constituted or which might have been reasonably expected to cause or result in unlawful stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
dd) . The Company and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness or significant deficiencies in the Company's and its subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no adverse change in the Company's or any subsidiary's internal control over financial reporting, in either case of clause (i) or (ii) preceding that has materially and adversely affected, or is reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect, the Company's and its subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting, on a consolidated basis.
Internal Controls
ee) . The Company and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, maintain a system of "disclosure controls and procedures" (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) that comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act and have been designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported in accordance with the Exchange Act. The Company's management has carried out evaluations, with the participation of the Company's principal executive and principal financial officers, of the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures in accordance with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
ff) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor any agent thereof acting on the behalf of them has taken, and none of them will take, any action that might cause this Agreement or the issuance or sale of the Securities to violate Regulation T, Regulation U or Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Regulation T, U or X
gg) . There are no business relationships or related-party transactions involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any other person required to be described in the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus that have not been described as required.
Related Party Transactions
hh) . None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of either (i) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the ""), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA or (ii) the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the ""), and the Company, its
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments
FCPA
Bribery Act
 
subsidiaries and, to the Company's knowledge, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and the Bribery Act and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
ii) . The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar applicable rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws
Money Laundering Laws
jj) . None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the Company's knowledge, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury (""); and the Company will not, directly or indirectly, use the proceeds of the offering of the Securities hereunder or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws
OFAC
kk) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any applicable provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the ""), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
SECTION 2. .
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Securities
a) . The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors agree to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Securities upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors the aggregate principal amount of Notes, together with the related Guarantees, set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 98.965% of the principal amount of the Notes, payable on the Closing Date, plus any additional principal amount of Securities which the Underwriters may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 hereof.
The Securities
b) . Delivery of certificates for the Securities in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, Worldwide Plaza, 825 Eighth Avenue, New York, NY 10019 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on September 11, 2012, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "").
The Closing Date
Closing Date
 
c) . The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Securities as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Securities
d) . The Company will deliver against payment of the purchase price the Notes and the Guarantees in the form of one or more permanent global securities in definitive form (the "Global Securities") deposited with the Trustee as custodian for The Depository Trust Company ("") and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC. Payment for the Securities shall be made by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to a U.S. bank account specified by the Company, at 9:00 A.M., New York time, on September 11, 2012, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, against delivery to the Trustee as custodian for DTC of the Global Securities representing all of the Offered Securities. The Global Securities will be made available for checking at the offices of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, Worldwide Plaza, 825 Eighth Avenue, New York, NY 10019 at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Payment for and Delivery of the Securities
DTC
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. Each of the Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
SECTION 3. .
Covenants of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors
The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, jointly and severally, covenant and agree with each Underwriter as follows:
a) . The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors will effect the filings required pursuant to Rule 424(b), in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b), and will take such steps as the Company deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 were received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that any of them was not, the Company will promptly file such document. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors will use their reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order referred to above and, if any such stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests
 
b) . During the period beginning on the Execution Date and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the ""), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments
Prospectus Delivery Period
c) . The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, conformed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein).
Copies of the Registration Statement
d) . The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request.
Delivery of Prospectuses
e) . The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters and for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any applicable federal securities law, the Company will (i) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (ii) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
f) . The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors shall (i) cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Securities for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions
Blue Sky Compliance
 
designated by the Representatives, (ii) comply with such laws and (iii) continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities. None of the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors shall be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Securities for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors shall use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
g) . The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds
h) . The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its commercially reasonable efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary
i) . During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis (including any extensions permitted by Rule 12b-25 under the Exchange Act), with the Commission and the NYSE all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations
j) . During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, none of the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors will, without the prior written consent of J.P. Morgan (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of J.P. Morgan), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor similar to the Notes or the Guarantees or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes or the Guarantees (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Securities).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities
k) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet in a form approved by the Representatives and attached as Exhibit A hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the ""). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
Final Term Sheet
l) . Each of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." Each of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
 
with the Commission, legending and record keeping. Each of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Securities or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
m) . If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action reasonably necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
n) . The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by and in accordance with Rules 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
o) . During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors will comply, in all material respects, with all applicable securities laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause the directors and officers of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, in their capacities as such, to comply, in all material respects, with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act
p) . None of the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
No Manipulation of Price
J.P. Morgan, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in its sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
SECTION 4. . The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its and the Subsidiary Guarantors' obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Securities (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities to the Underwriters, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all
Payment of Expenses
 
amendments and supplements thereto, during the Prospectus Delivery Period but not exceeding nine months after the date of the Initial Sale Time, and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to the Underwriters and dealers involved in the offer and sale of the Securities, this Agreement, the Indenture, and the DTC Agreement, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Securities for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, in an amount not to exceed $5,000, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("") of the terms of the sale of the Securities (in an amount not to exceed $10,000), (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Securities by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and expenses of their counsel.
FINRA
SECTION 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors of their respective covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
a) . For the period from and after the Execution Time and prior to the Closing Date and, with respect to the Securities:
Compliance with Registration Requirements; No Stop Order
(i) the Company shall have filed the Prospectus with the Commission (including the information required by Rule 430B under the Securities Act) in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act;
(ii) the Final Term Sheet, and any other material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings under such Rule 433; and
(iii) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement, shall be in effect and no proceedings for such purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act shall have been instituted or threatened by the Commission; and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.
b) . On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter
 
c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
d) . For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change
(i) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change; and
(ii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any debt securities or preferred equity securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act.
e) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Haynes & Boone, LLP, counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, in the form previously agreed between such counsel and counsel for the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
f) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
g) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chief Executive Officer or a Senior Vice President of the Company and the principal financial or accounting officer of the Company on behalf of the Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate
(i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or, to the knowledge of such officers, threatened by the Commission;
(ii) the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
(iii) the representations and warranties of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
(iv) the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors have satisfied all the conditions and complied in all material respects with all the agreements hereunder on their respective parts to be satisfied or performed hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
h) . At the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or fulfillment of the agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents
 
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
SECTION 6. . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5, 10 or 11, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Securities on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Underwriters in the case of termination pursuant to Section 5 or Section 11 hereof or the non-defaulting Underwriters, in the case of termination pursuant to Section 10 hereof, severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Securities, including but not limited to fees and expenses of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
SECTION 7. . This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Effectiveness of this Agreement
SECTION 8. .
Indemnification
(a) . The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, directors, employees, officers, selling agents and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such affiliate, director, employee, officer, selling agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any roadshow or investor presentation made to investors by the Company (whether in person or electronically) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such affiliate, director, employee, officer, selling agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such affiliate, director, employee, officer, selling agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action, that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter
Indemnification of the Underwriters
; provided
 
through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
(b) . Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each Subsidiary Guarantor and their respective directors, each of their respective officers who signs the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing) or any roadshow or investor presentation made to investors by the Company (whether in person or electronically) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense (including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) reasonably incurred by the Company, such Subsidiary Guarantor, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby acknowledge that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any roadshow or investor presentation made to investors by the Company (whether in person or electronically) is the following information included under the caption "Underwriting (Conflicts of interest)" in such documents: (i) the names in the first column "Underwriters" under the heading "Underwriting (Conflicts of Interest)" in the table in the first paragraph; (ii) the first paragraph under the subcaption "Discounts"; (iii) the third sentence in the paragraph under the subcaption "New issue of notes" concerning certain market making activities of the underwriters; (iv) the first paragraph, second paragraph and (except to the extent any statement is with respect to the Company) the third paragraph under the subcaption "Short positions"; (v) the second paragraph under the subcaption "Other relationships"; and (vi) the last sentence in the paragraph under the subcaption "Conflicts of interest." The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and their Respective Directors and Officers
 
(c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, , that the failure to so notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party promptly after receiving such notice from such indemnified party, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm, in the case of indemnified parties described in Section 8(a), shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures
provided
; provided
(d) . The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements
 
SECTION 9. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on such cover page of the Prospectus. The relative fault of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Contribution
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
The Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each affiliate, director, employee,officer and selling agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantors, each officer of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor who signs the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company and a Subsidiary Guarantor.
 
SECTION 10. . If any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on the Closing Date, and the aggregate principal amount of Securities, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Securities set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such Closing Date. If any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Securities and the aggregate principal amount of such Securities with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be purchased on the Closing Date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Securities are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
SECTION 11. . Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the NYSE, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the NYSE shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by federal or New York banking authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; (iv) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change; or (v) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of this Agreement
SECTION 12. . Each of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and each of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with
No Fiduciary Duty
 
each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor or their affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors have consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent they deemed appropriate.
The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that they may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of fiduciary duty.
SECTION 13. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, of their respective officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor, the officers or employees of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, or any person controlling the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Securities and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
SECTION 14. . All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Notices
If to the Representatives:
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10179
Facsimile: 212-834-6081
Attention: High Grade Syndicate Desk  3rd Floor
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
One Bryant Park
NY1-100-18-03
New York, NY 10036
Facsimile: 646-855-5958
Attention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
301 S. College Street, 6th Floor
 
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
Facsimile: 704-383-9165
Attention: Transaction Management
with a copy to:
Cravath, Swaine &Moore LLP
Worldwide Plaza
825 Eighth Avenue
New York, New York 10019
Facsimile: (212) 474-3700
Attention: Andrew J. Pitts
If to the Company:
Flowserve Corporation
5215 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 2300
Irving, Texas 75039
Facsimile: (972) 443-6910
Attention: Luke Alverson
with a copy to:
Haynes & Boone, LLP
2323 Victory Avenue, Suite 700
Dallas, Texas 75219
Facsimile: (214) 200-0428
Attention: Garrett DeVries
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
SECTION 15. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the affiliates, directors, employees, officers, selling agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Securities as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Successors
SECTION 16. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Partial Unenforceability
SECTION 17. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
Governing Law Provisions
 
(a) . Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby ("") may be instituted in the federal courts of the United States of America located in the City and County of New York, Borough of Manhattan, or the courts of the State of New York in each case located in the City and County of New York, Borough of Manhattan (collectively, the ""), and each party irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction (except for proceedings instituted in regard to the enforcement of a judgment of any such court (a ""), as to which such jurisdiction is non-exclusive) of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding. Service of any process, summons, notice or document by mail to such party's address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court. The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit, action or other proceeding in the Specified Courts and irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Consent to Jurisdiction
Related Proceedings
Specified Courts
Related Judgment
SECTION 18. . The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors acknowledge that the Underwriters' research analysts and research departments are required to be independent from their respective investment banking divisions and are subject to certain regulations and internal policies, and that such Underwriters' research analysts may hold views and make statements or investment recommendations and/or publish research reports with respect to the Company, its subsidiaries and/or the offering of the Securities that differ from the views of their respective investment banking divisions. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any claims that the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor may have against the Underwriters with respect to any conflict of interest that may arise from the fact that the views expressed by their independent research analysts and research departments may be different from or inconsistent with the views or advice communicated to the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor by such Underwriters' investment banking divisions. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors acknowledge that each of the Underwriters is a full service securities firm and as such from time to time, subject to applicable securities laws, may effect transactions for its own account or the account of its customers and hold long or short positions in debt or equity securities of the companies that may be the subject of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Research Analyst Independence
SECTION 19. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
General Provisions
Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
 
 
Final Term Sheet dated September 6, 2012
Electronic (Netroadshow) road show of the Company used in connection with the offering of the Securities
Free Writing Prospectus
(To Prospectus dated August 30, 2012 and
Preliminary Prospectus Supplement dated September 6, 2012)
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer or any underwriter participating in this offering can arrange to send you the prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus if you request it by calling J.P. Morgan Securities LLC at (212) 834-4533, or by calling Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated toll-free at (800) 294-1322 or emailing atdg.prospectus_requests@baml.com, or by calling Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll-free at (800) 326-5897 or emailing: cmclientsupport@wellsfargo.com.

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.A. Means Not Applicable.
Note: This Cross-Reference Table shall not, for any purposes, be deemed to be part of this Indenture
 
, dated as of September 11, 2012, is entered into by and between , a New York corporation (the "Company"), and , a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee").
THIS SENIOR INDENTURE
FLOWSERVE CORPORATION
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
, the Company may from time to time duly authorize the issue of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness to be issued in one or more series (the ) up to such principal amount or amounts as may from time to time be authorized in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
WHEREAS
"Securities"
, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide, among other things, for the authentication, delivery and administration of the Securities; and
WHEREAS
, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid indenture and agreement according to its terms have been done;
WHEREAS
:
NOW, THEREFORE
In consideration of the premises and the purchases of the Securities by the holders thereof, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Securities as follows:
Section 1.01
Definitions.
means any additional amounts required by the express terms of a Security or by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, under circumstances specified therein or pursuant thereto, to be paid by the Company with respect to certain taxes, assessments or other governmental charges imposed on certain Holders and that are owing to those Holders.
"Additional Amounts"
of a Guarantor at any date means the amount by which the fair value of the properties and assets of such Guarantor exceeds the total amount of liabilities, including, without limitation, contingent liabilities (after giving effect to all other fixed and contingent liabilities incurred or assumed on such date), but excluding liabilities under its Securities Guarantee, of such Guarantor at such date.
"Adjusted Net Assets"
of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, the terms and have correlative meanings.
"Affiliate"
"control,"
"controlling," "controlled by"
"under common control with"
means Title 11, or any similar Federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
"Bankruptcy Law"
United States Code
 
means:
"Board of Directors"
(1) with respect to a corporation, the board of directors of the corporation or any committee thereof duly authorized to act on behalf of such board;
(2) with respect to a partnership, the board of directors of the general partner of the partnership;
(3) with respect to a limited liability company, the manager, managers, managing member or members or any controlling committee of managers or managing members thereof, as the case may be; and
(4) with respect to any other Person, the board or committee of such Person serving a similar function.
means a copy of a resolution certified by a Vice President, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the applicable Person to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors of such Person and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Board Resolution"
means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in New York, New York or another place of payment on the Securities of the applicable series are authorized or required by law to close.
"Business Day"
means:
"Capital Stock"
(1) in the case of a corporation, corporate stock;
(2) in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock;
(3) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership interests (whether general or limited) or membership interests; and
(4) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person,
but excluding from all of the foregoing any debt securities convertible into Capital Stock, whether or not such debt securities include any right of participation with Capital Stock.
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Code"
has the meaning ascribed to it in the first introductory paragraph of this Indenture.
"Company"
and mean, respectively, a written order or request signed in the name of the Company by two Officers of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Company Order"
"Company Request"
means the Company's senior credit facility, dated as of August 20, 2012, among the Company, certain of its Subsidiaries and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other agents and lenders from time to time party thereto, together with all related notes, letters of
"Credit Agreement"
 
credit, collateral documents, guarantees, and any other related agreements and instruments executed and delivered in connection therewith, in each case as amended, modified, supplemented, restated, refinanced, refunded or replaced from time to time, in each case with respect to such agreement or any successor or replacement agreement and whether by the same or any other agent, lender, or group of lenders.
means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
"Custodian"
means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
"Default"
means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof as the initial Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series, until a successor shall have been appointed and become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Indenture, and thereafter shall mean or include that successor.
"Depositary"
"Depositary"
or means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debt.
"Dollar"
"$"
means The Depository Trust Company, its nominees and their respective successors and assigns, or such other depositary institution hereinafter appointed by the Company.
"DTC"
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Act"
means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time in the United States.
"GAAP"
of any series means a Security of that series that is issued in global form in the name of the Depositary with respect thereto or its nominee.
"Global Securities"
means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America for the payment of which obligations or guarantee the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged.
"Government Securities"
means a guarantee other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business, direct or indirect, in any manner including, without limitation, by way of a pledge of assets or through letters of credit or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof, of all or any part of any indebtedness (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, or by agreements to keep-well, to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise), or entered into for purposes of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such indebtedness of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part).
"Guarantee"
means, with respect to any series of Securities, the Person or Persons, if any, named in accordance with clause (9) of Section 2.01 as the with respect to such series and which shall have entered into a supplemental indenture pursuant to clause (3) of Section 9.01 hereof whereby such Person shall have executed a Securities Guarantee under this Indenture with respect to such series of Securities until, as to any particular Guarantor, (i) such Guarantor shall have been released from its Securities Guarantee in respect of such series of Securities in accordance with this Indenture or (ii) a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter any reference to such shall mean such successor Person. If a series of Securities
"Guarantors"
"Guarantors"
"Guarantor"
 
does not have any Guarantors, all references in this Indenture to Guarantors shall have no effect and shall be ignored with respect to such Securities. Upon the release of any Guarantor pursuant to Section 10.03, each reference to shall exclude such Person.
"Guarantor"
means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the applicable Securities Register.
"Holder"
means this Senior Indenture as amended or supplemented from time to time by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term shall also include the terms of any particular series of Securities and of any Securities Guarantees thereof established as contemplated by Section 2.01.
"Indenture"
"Indenture"
when used with respect to any Security, shall have the meaning assigned to that term in the Security as contemplated by Section 2.01.
"Interest Payment Date,"
means, with respect to any Security, the date on which the principal of that Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity thereof, or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
"Maturity"
has the meaning specified in Section 10.02, it being understood that each reference herein to any Notation of Guarantee shall apply solely with respect to Securities of any series that are entitled to the benefits of any Securities Guarantee of any Guarantor and as to which Notations of Guarantee are to be included on such Securities as designated pursuant to clause (9) of Section 2.01.
"Notation of Guarantee"
means a person who is not a U.S. person, as defined in Regulation S.
"Non-U.S. Person"
means any principal, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any indebtedness.
"Obligations"
means the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, any Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, or Vice President, the Treasurer, any comptroller, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
"Officer"
means a certificate signed by two Officers, at least one of whom shall be the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, or the comptroller that meets the requirements of Section 12.04 and 12.05.
"Officers' Certificate"
means a written opinion from legal counsel who is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee that meets the requirements of Section 12.04 and 12.05. The counsel may be an employee of or in-house counsel to the Company.
"Opinion of Counsel"
means any Security that provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable on a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02.
"Original Issue Discount Security"
means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or other entity.
"Person"
 
when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, in whole or in part, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
"Redemption Date"
means, with respect to any Security to be redeemed, the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
"Redemption Price"
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
"SEC"
has the meaning ascribed to it in the second introductory paragraph of this Indenture.
"Securities"
means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"Securities Act"
means the Guarantee by each Guarantor of the Company's Obligations under this Indenture and any series of Securities.
"Securities Guarantee"
means the register of Securities, maintained by the Registrar, pursuant to Section 2.05.
"Securities Register"
means, with respect to Securities of a series issued in global form, the Trustee for Securities of that series, as custodian with respect to the Securities of that series, or any successor entity thereto.
"Security Custodian"
means any Guarantor and any other Subsidiary, which, at the time of determination, would be a as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act as such Regulation is in effect on the date of this Indenture.
"Significant Subsidiary"
"significant subsidiary"
means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of indebtedness, the date on which the payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the documentation governing such indebtedness, and will not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof.
"Stated Maturity"
of any specified Person means any Person of which more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more other Subsidiaries of such Person.
"Subsidiary"
or except as otherwise provided in Section 9.03, means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15  77aaa through 77bbbb), as in effect on the date hereof.
"TIA"
"Trust Indenture Act,"
U.S.C.
shall mean, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
"Trust Officer"
means the Person named as such above until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter means each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, as used with respect to the Securities of any series means the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
"Trustee"
"Trustee"
"Trustee"
 
of any specified Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
"Voting Stock"
Section 1.02
Other Definitions.
 
Section 1.03 . This Indenture is subject to the mandatory provisions of the TIA which are incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms have the following meanings:
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
means the SEC.
"Commission"
means the Securities.
"indenture securities"
means a Holder of a Security.
"indenture security holder"
means this Indenture.
"indenture to be qualified"
or means the Trustee.
"indenture trustee"
"institutional trustee"
on any series of Securities means the Company, any Guarantors and any other obligor on such series of Securities.
"obligor"
All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined in the TIA by reference to another statute or defined by SEC rules promulgated under the TIA have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
Section 1.04 . Unless the context otherwise requires:
Rules of Construction
(1) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
(2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
 
(3) is not exclusive;
"or"
(4) means including without limitation;
"including"
(5) words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular;
(6) the principal amount of any noninterest bearing or other discount security at any date shall be the principal amount thereof that would be shown on a balance sheet of the Company dated such date prepared in accordance with GAAP; and
(7) provisions apply to successive events and transactions.
Section 2.01 . The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
Form, Dating and Terms
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate of the Company or in a Company Order, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series:
(1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from the Securities of all other series);
(2) if there is to be a limit, the limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 2.08, Section 2.09, Section 2.13, Section 2.16, Section 5.07 or Section 9.05 and except for any Securities that, pursuant to Section 2.04 or Section 2.16, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder); , that unless otherwise provided in the terms of the series, the authorized aggregate principal amount of such series may be increased before or after the issuance of any Securities of the series by a Board Resolution (or action pursuant to a Board Resolution) to such effect;
provided, however
(3) whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form, as Global Securities or otherwise, and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such Global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 2.16, and the initial Depositary and Security Custodian, if any, for any Global Security or Securities of such series;
(4) the manner in which any interest payable on a temporary Global Security on any Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in Section 2.12;
 
(5) the date or dates on which the principal of and premium (if any) on the Securities of the series is payable or the method of determination thereof;
(6) the rate or rates, or the method of determination thereof, at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, whether and under what circumstances Additional Amounts with respect to such Securities shall be payable, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable and the record date for the interest payable on any Securities on any Interest Payment Date, or if other than provided herein, the Person to whom any interest on Securities of the series shall be payable;
(7) the place or places where, subject to the provisions of Section 3.03, the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series shall be payable;
(8) the period or periods within which, the price or prices (whether denominated in cash, securities or otherwise) at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, if the Company is to have that option, and the manner in which the Company must exercise any such option, if different from those set forth herein;
(9) whether Securities of the series are entitled to the benefits of any Securities Guarantee of any Guarantor pursuant to this Indenture, the identity of any such Guarantors at the time of initial issuance of the Securities of such series, whether Notations of Guarantees are to be included on such Securities and any terms of such Securities Guarantee with respect to the Securities of the series in addition to those set forth in Article X, or any exceptions to or changes to those set forth in Article X;
(10) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, purchase or repay Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices (whether denominated in cash, securities or otherwise) at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid in whole or in part pursuant to such obligation;
(11) if other than denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof, the denomination in which any Securities of that series shall be issuable;
(12) if other than Dollars, the currency or currencies (including composite currencies) or the form, including equity securities, other debt securities (including Securities), warrants or any other securities or property of the Company, any Guarantor or any other Person, in which payment of the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series shall be payable;
(13) if the principal of, premium (if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a currency or currencies (including composite currencies) other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the currency or currencies (including composite currencies) in which payment of the principal of,
 
premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to Securities of such series as to which such election is made shall be payable, and the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made;
(14) if the amount of payments of principal of, premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any commodities, currencies or indices, values, rates or prices or any other index or formula, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(15) if other than the entire principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02;
(16) any additional means of satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and any additional conditions or limitations to discharge with respect to Securities of the series and the related Securities Guarantees, if any, pursuant to Article VIII or any modifications of or deletions from such conditions or limitations;
(17) any deletions or modifications of or additions to the Events of Default set forth in Section 6.01 or covenants of the Company or any Guarantor set forth in Article III pertaining to the Securities of the series;
(18) any restrictions or other provisions with respect to the transfer or exchange of Securities of the series, which may amend, supplement, modify or supersede those contained in this Article II;
(19) if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for capital stock, other debt securities (including Securities), warrants, other equity securities or any other securities or property of the Company, any Guarantor or any other Person, at the option of the Company or the Holder or upon the occurrence of any condition or event, the terms and conditions for such conversion or exchange;
(20) if applicable, that the Securities of the series, in whole or any specified part, shall not be defeasible pursuant to Section 8.02 or Section 8.03 or both such Sections, and, if such Securities may be defeased, in whole or in part, pursuant to either or both such Sections, any provisions to permit a pledge of obligations other than Government Securities (or the establishment of other arrangements) to satisfy the requirements of Section 8.04(1) for defeasance of such Securities and, if other than by a Board Resolution of the Company, the manner in which any election by the Company to defease such Securities shall be evidenced; and
(21) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be prohibited by the provisions of this Indenture).
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 2.03) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate or Company Order referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
 
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action, together with such Board Resolution, shall be set forth in an Officers' Certificate or certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate or Company Order setting forth the terms of the series.
Section 2.02 . The Securities of each series shall be issuable in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 2.01. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series denominated in Dollars shall be issuable in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Denominations
Section 2.03 . The Securities of each series shall be in fully registered form and in substantially such form or forms (including temporary or permanent global form) established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto. The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, securities exchange rules, the Company's certificate of incorporation, bylaws or other similar governing documents, agreements to which the Company is subject, if any, or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement is in a form acceptable to the Company). A copy of the Board Resolution establishing the form or forms of Securities of any series shall be delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 2.04 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
Forms Generally
The definitive Securities of each series shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the Officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution thereof.
The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
"This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Section 2.04 . Two Officers of the Company shall sign the Securities on behalf of the Company and, with respect to any related Securities Guarantees, Notations of Guarantee as to which are to be endorsed on such Securities, an Officer of each Guarantor shall sign the Notation of Guarantee on behalf of such Guarantor, in each case by manual or facsimile signature (or other electronic means).
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
If an Officer of the Company or a Guarantor whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Security or the Notation of Guarantee, as the case may be, is authenticated, the Security or Notation of Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless.
A Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or any related Securities Guarantees or be valid or obligatory for any purpose until authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized signatory of the Trustee, which signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security has been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company
 
delivers such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 2.11, together with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 12.05 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture or the related Securities Guarantees.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company (and, if applicable, the Notation of Guarantee for such series executed by each Guarantor with respect to such series) to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Securities for original issue upon a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities or pursuant to such procedures acceptable to the Trustee as may be specified from time to time by Company Order. Such order shall specify the amount of the Securities to be authenticated, the date on which the original issue of Securities is to be authenticated, the name or names of the initial Holder or Holders and any other terms of the Securities of such series not otherwise determined. If provided for in such procedures, such Company Order may authorize (1) authentication and delivery of Securities of such series for original issue from time to time, with certain terms (including, without limitation, the Maturity dates or dates, original issue date or dates and interest rate or rates) that differ from Security to Security and (2) may authorize authentication and delivery pursuant to oral or electronic instructions from the Company or its duly authorized agent, which instructions shall be promptly confirmed in writing.
If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Section 2.01, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall receive (in addition to the Company Order referred to above and the other documents required by Section 12.04) and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon:
(a) an Officers' Certificate of the Company setting forth the Board Resolution and, if applicable, an appropriate record of any action taken pursuant thereto, as contemplated by the last paragraph of Section 2.01; and
(b) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that:
(i) the form of such Securities has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(ii) the terms of such Securities have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(iii) that such Securities and the related Securities Guarantees, if any, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company and the Guarantors, respectively, enforceable against the Company and the Guarantors, respectively, in accordance with their respective terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or transfer or other similar laws in effect from time to time affecting the rights of creditors generally, and the application of general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); and
 
(iv) that all laws and requirements in respect of the execution and delivery by the Company of such Securities have been complied with.
If all the Securities of any series are not to be issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel at the time of issuance of each such Security, but such Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel shall be delivered at or before the time of issuance of the first Security of the series to be issued.
The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issuance of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture would affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities. Unless limited by the terms of such appointment, any such authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company, any Guarantor or an Affiliate of the Company or any Guarantor.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
Section 2.05 . The Company shall maintain an office or agency for each series of Securities where Securities of such series may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (the ) and an office or agency where Securities of such series may be presented for payment (the ). The Company shall cause each of the Registrar and the Paying Agent to maintain an office or agency in the United States of America. The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange (the ). The Company may have one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term includes any additional paying agent.
Registrar and Paying Agent
"Registrar"
"Paying Agent"
"Securities Register"
"Paying Agent"
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar not a party to this Indenture, which shall incorporate the terms of the TIA. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of each such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.07. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, co-registrar or transfer agent.
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar and Paying Agent for the Securities.
Section 2.06 . By no later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date on which any amount or Additional Amounts, if any, in respect of any Security is due and payable, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum sufficient in immediately available funds to pay such amount or Additional Amounts, if any, when due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that such Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of the applicable Holders or the Trustee all money held by such Paying Agent for the payment of such amount and Additional Amounts, if any, on the applicable Securities and shall notify the Trustee in writing of any default by the Company or any Guarantor in making any such payment. If the Company or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by such Paying Agent. Upon complying with this Section 2.06, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee. Upon any bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding with respect to the Company, the Trustee shall serve as Paying Agent for the Securities.
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
 
Section 2.07 . The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar with respect to a series of Securities, or to the extent otherwise required under the TIA, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee, in writing at least five Business Days before each interest payment date with respect to such series of Securities and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Holders of such series.
Holder Lists
Section 2.08 . Except as set forth in Section 2.16 or as may be provided pursuant to Section 2.01, when Securities of any series are presented to the Registrar with the request to register the transfer of those Securities or to exchange those Securities for an equal principal amount of Securities of the same series of like tenor and of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements and the requirements of this Indenture for those transactions are met; , that the Securities presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Holder thereof or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing, on which instruction the Registrar can rely.
Transfer and Exchange
provided, however
To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute Securities (and, if applicable, each Guarantor with respect to such series shall execute the Notation of Guarantee for such series) and the Trustee shall authenticate such Securities at the Registrar's written request and submission of the Securities (other than Global Securities). No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any registration of transfer or exchange (except as otherwise expressly permitted herein), but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable on exchanges pursuant to Section 2.13, Section 5.07 or Section 9.05). The Trustee shall authenticate Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.04. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture to the contrary, the Company shall not be required to register the transfer or exchange of (a) any Security selected for redemption in whole or in part pursuant to Article V, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part or (b) any Security during the period beginning 15 Business Days before the mailing of notice of any offer to repurchase Securities of the series required pursuant to the terms thereof or of redemption of Securities of a series to be redeemed and ending at the close of business on the date of mailing.
Section 2.09 . If a mutilated Security is surrendered to the Registrar or if the Holder of a Security claims that the Security has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Security with respect to such series if the requirements of Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code are met, such that the Holder (a) satisfies the Company or the Trustee within a reasonable time after such Holder has notice of such loss, destruction or wrongful taking and the Registrar does not register a transfer prior to receiving such notification, (b) makes such request to the Company or Trustee prior to the Security being acquired by a protected purchaser as defined in Section 8-303 of the Uniform Commercial Code (a ) and (c) satisfies any other reasonable requirements of the Trustee. Such Holder shall furnish an indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Trustee to protect the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar and any co-registrar
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Wrongfully Taken Securities
"protected purchaser"
 
from any loss which any of them may suffer if a Security is replaced, and, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and, upon a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security, a new Security of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security of such series, pay such Security.
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section 2.09, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) in connection therewith.
Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section 2.09 in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, any Guarantor (if applicable) and any other obligor upon the Securities of such series, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of such series duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section 2.09 are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or wrongfully taken Securities.
Section 2.10 . Securities outstanding at any time are all Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those paid pursuant to Section 2.09 and those described in this Section 2.10 as not outstanding. A Security ceases to be outstanding in the event the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company holds the Security, , , that (i) for purposes of determining which Securities are outstanding for consent or voting purposes hereunder, the provisions of Section 12.06 shall apply and (ii) in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in making a determination whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of outstanding Securities are present at a meeting of Holders of Securities for quorum purposes or have consented to or voted in favor of any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver, amendment or modification hereunder, or relying upon any such quorum, consent or vote, only Securities which a Trust Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be held by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company shall not be considered outstanding.
Outstanding Securities
provided
however
If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 12.09, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to them that the replaced Security is held by a protected purchaser.
If the Paying Agent segregates and holds in trust, in accordance with this Indenture, on a Redemption Date, repurchase date or maturity date money sufficient to pay all amounts and Additional Amounts, if any, payable on that date with respect to the Securities (or portions thereof) to be redeemed, repurchased or maturing, as the case may be, and the Paying Agent is not prohibited from paying such money to the Holders on that date pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, then on and after that date such Securities (or portions thereof) cease to be outstanding and interest on them ceases to accrue.
 
Section 2.11 . The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Securities surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment or cancellation and dispose of such Securities in accordance with its internal policies (subject to the record retention requirements of the Exchange Act), and certification of their cancellation shall be delivered to the Company promptly upon receipt by the Trustee of a Company Request. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for any reason other than in connection with a transfer or exchange.
Cancellation
Section 2.12 . Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on any Security of such series which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any interest payment date shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.08.
Payment of Interest; Defaulted Interest
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, any interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on any Security of such series which is payable, but is not paid when the same becomes due and payable and such nonpayment continues for a period of 30 days shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the regular record date, and such defaulted interest and (to the extent lawful) interest on such defaulted interest at the rate provided for in the Securities therefor (such defaulted interest and interest thereon herein collectively called ) shall be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (a) or (b) below:
"Defaulted Interest"
(a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or their respective predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date (as defined below) for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date (not less than 30 days after such notice) of the proposed payment (the ), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a record date (the ) for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which date shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the Special Interest Payment Date and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date, and in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date and Special Interest Payment Date therefor to be given in the manner provided for in Section 12.02, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date and Special Interest Payment Date therefor having been so given, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid on the Special Interest Payment Date to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or their respective predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (b).
"Special Interest Payment Date"
"Special Record Date"
 
(b) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.12, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of, transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest and Additional Amounts, if any, each as accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Section 2.13 . Until definitive Securities of any series are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Securities of such series. Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of definitive Securities, but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Securities. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Securities in exchange for temporary Securities. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities.
Temporary Securities
Section 2.14 . The Company, any Guarantors, the Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of that Security for the purpose of receiving payments of principal of, premium (if any) or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, that Security and for all other purposes. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Agent or any authenticating agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners
Section 2.15 . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Computation of Interest
Section 2.16 . If Securities of a series are issuable in global form as a Global Security, as contemplated by Section 2.01, then, notwithstanding clause (11) of Section 2.01 and the provisions of Section 2.02, any such Global Security shall represent those of the outstanding Securities of that series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities of that series from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities of that series represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, transfers or redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Security to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of outstanding Securities of that series represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee (i) in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified in that Security or in a Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.04 or (ii) otherwise in accordance with written instructions or such other written form of instructions as is customary for the Depositary for that Security, from that Depositary or its nominee on behalf of any Person having a beneficial interest in that Global Security. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.04 and, if applicable, Section 2.13, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified in that Security or in the applicable Company Order. With respect to the Securities of any series that are represented by a Global Security, the Company and any Guarantors authorize the execution and delivery by the Trustee of a letter of representations or other similar agreement or instrument in the form customarily provided for by the Depositary appointed with respect to that Global Security. Any Global Security may be deposited with the Depositary or its nominee, or may remain in the custody of the Trustee or the Security Custodian therefor pursuant to a FAST Balance Certificate Agreement or similar agreement between the Trustee and the Depositary. If a Company Order has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement
Global Securities; Book-Entry Provisions
or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 12.05 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
 
Members of, or participants in, the Depositary () shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee or the Security Custodian as its custodian, or under that Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, any Guarantor, the Trustee or the Security Custodian and any agent of the Company, any Guarantor, the Trustee or the Security Custodian as the absolute owner of that Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the registered holder of a Global Security of any series may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder of Securities of that series is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities of that series and (ii) nothing herein shall prevent the Company, any Guarantor, the Trustee or the Security Custodian or any agent of the Company, any Guarantor, the Trustee, or the Security Custodian from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or shall impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a beneficial owner of any Security.
"Agent Members"
Notwithstanding Section 2.08, and except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01, transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of that Global Security in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Interests of beneficial owners in a Global Security may be transferred in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary. Securities of any series shall be transferred to all beneficial owners of a Global Security of that series in exchange for their beneficial interests in that Global Security if, and only if, either (1) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as depositary for such Global Security or the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, at a time when the Depositary is required to be so registered in order to act as depositary, and, in either case, a successor depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice, (2) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of definitive Securities or (3) a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities.
In connection with any transfer of a portion of the beneficial interests in a Global Security to beneficial owners pursuant to this Section 2.16, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the Global Security in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Global Security to be transferred, and the Company shall execute and, if applicable, each Guarantor with respect to such series shall execute the Notation of Guarantee relating to such Global Security, if any, and the Trustee on receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of Securities shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Securities of the same series of like tenor and amount.
In connection with the transfer of all the beneficial interests in a Global Security of any series to beneficial owners pursuant to this Section 2.16, the Global Security shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in the Global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of Securities of that series of authorized denominations.
None of the Company, any Guarantor or the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to, or payments made on account of, Securities by the Depositary, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records of the Depositary relating to those Securities, or for any other actions taken or not taken by the Depositary. None of the Company, any Guarantor or the
 
Trustee shall be liable for any delay by the related Global Security Holder or the Depositary in identifying the beneficial owners, and each such Person may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, instructions from that Global Security Holder or the Depositary for all purposes (including with respect to the registration and delivery, and the respective principal amounts, of the Securities to be issued).
The provisions of the last sentence of the third paragraph of Section 2.04 shall apply to any Global Security if that Global Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company or a Guarantor delivers to the Trustee the Global Security together with written instructions (which need not comply with Section 12.05 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the cancellation or reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of the third paragraph of Section 2.04.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 and Section 2.12, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to Securities of any series, payment of principal of and premium (if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to any Global Security shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
Section 2.17 . The Company in issuing the Securities of any series may use CUSIP, ISIN and Common Code numbers (if then generally in use) and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP, ISIN and Common Code numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders of Securities of such series; , , that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities of such series or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities of such series, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP, ISIN and Common Code numbers.
CUSIP Numbers, Etc
provided
however
Section 2.18 . In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of outstanding Securities have concurred in any direction, amendment, supplement, waiver or consent, unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, (a) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security of such series shall be the principal amount thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of that determination upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02, and (b) the principal amount of a Security of such series denominated in a foreign currency shall be the Dollar equivalent, as determined by the Company by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for that currency, as that rate is certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the ) on the date of original issuance of that Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the Dollar equivalent, as determined by the Company by reference to the Exchange Rate on the date of original issuance of that Security, of the amount determined as provided in (a) above), of that Security.
Original Issue Discount and Foreign-Currency Denominated Securities
"Exchange Rate"
Section 3.01 . The Company shall promptly pay the principal of, premium, if any, on, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities and in this Indenture. Principal, premium, if any, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, shall be considered paid on the date due if on such date the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds in accordance with this Indenture immediately available funds sufficient to pay all principal, premium and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, then due and the Trustee or Paying Agent, as the case may be, is not prohibited from paying money to the Holders on that date pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
Payment of Securities
 
The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal at the rate specified therefor in the Securities, and it shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the same rate to the extent lawful.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Indenture, the Company may, to the extent it is required to do so by law, deduct or withhold income or other similar taxes imposed by the United States of America from principal or interest payments hereunder.
Section 3.02 . So long as the Securities of any series are outstanding, the Company shall:
Reports
(1) so long as the Company is subject to the requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, within the time periods specified by the Exchange Act, file such annual and quarterly reports and such information, documents and other reports as are specified in Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act and applicable to a U.S. corporation subject to such Sections; r, that the Company shall not be so obligated to file such information, documents and reports with the SEC if the SEC does not permit such filings;
provided, howeve
(2) furnish to the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company files the same with the SEC, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company files with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; provided, however, that any such information, document or report filed with the SEC pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (or EDGAR) system or any successor thereto shall be deemed to be filed with the Trustee; provided, however, that the Trustee shall have no responsibility whatsoever to determine whether such filing has occurred; and
(3) comply with the other provisions of TIA  314(a).
Section 3.03 . The Company will maintain in the United States of America an office or agency for any series of Securities where such Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where, if applicable, the Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The principal corporate trust office of the Trustee at the address of the Trustee specified in Section 12.02 hereof (the ) shall be such office or agency of the Company, unless the Company shall designate and maintain some other office or agency for one or more of such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any change in the location of any such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Maintenance of Office or Agency
"Corporate Trust Office"
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind any such designation; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the United States of America for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
 
Section 3.04 . Subject to Article IV, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence. This Section 3.04 shall not prohibit or restrict the Company from converting into a different form of legal entity.
Corporate Existence
Section 3.05 . The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company an Officers' Certificate, one of the signatories of which shall be the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company, stating that in the course of the performance by the signers of their duties as officers of the Company they would normally have knowledge of any Default or Event of Default and whether or not the signers know of any Default or Event of Default that occurred during such period. If they do, the certificate shall describe the Default or Event of Default, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. The Company also shall comply with TIA  314(a)(4).
Compliance Certificate
Section 3.06 . So long as Securities of any series are outstanding, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within 7 Business Days after the Company becomes aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default or Default with respect to that series an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of such Event of Default or Default and the action which the Company is taking or proposes to take in respect thereof.
Statement by Officers as to Default
Section 3.07 . If the Securities of a series expressly provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, the Company will pay to the Holder of any Security of that series Additional Amounts as expressly provided therein. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or in respect of, any Security of any series or the net proceeds received from the sale or exchange of any Security of any series, that mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided for in this Section 3.07 to the extent that, in that context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.07, and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where that express mention is not made.
Additional Amounts
Unless otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01 with respect to Securities of any series, if the Securities of a series provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, at least ten days prior to the first Interest Payment Date with respect to that series of Securities (or if the Securities of that series will not bear interest prior to Maturity, the first day on which a payment of principal and any premium is made), and at least ten days prior to each date of payment of principal and any premium or interest if there has been any change with respect to the matters set forth in the below-mentioned Officers' Certificate, the Company shall furnish the Trustee and the Company's principal Paying Agent or Paying Agents, if other than the Trustee, with an Officers' Certificate instructing the Trustee and such Paying Agent or Paying Agents whether that payment of principal of and any premium or interest on the Securities of that series shall be made to Holders of Securities of that series who are United States Aliens without withholding for or on account of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge described in the Securities of that series. If any such withholding shall be required, then that Officers' Certificate shall specify by country the amount, if any, required to be withheld on those payments to those Holders of Securities, and the Company will pay to that Paying Agent the Additional Amounts required by this Section. The Company covenants to indemnify the Trustee and any Paying Agent for and to hold them harmless against any loss, liability or expense reasonably incurred without negligence or bad faith on their part arising out of or in connection with actions taken or omitted by any of them in reliance on any Officers' Certificate furnished pursuant to this Section 3.07.
 
Section 3.08 . If the Securities are issued with original issue discount, the Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Calculation of Original Issue Discount
Section 4.01 . The Company shall not, in a single transaction or through a series of related transactions, (1) consolidate with or combine with or merge with or into, directly or indirectly, any other Person or Persons or sell, assign (excluding any assignment solely as collateral for security purposes under a credit facility but not any outright assignment upon the foreclosure on any such collateral), transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person or Persons, or (2) permit any Person or Persons to consolidate with, combine with or merger into the Company, unless:
Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets
(1) the Company shall be the successor or continuing Person or, if the Company is not the successor or continuing Person, the resulting, surviving or transferee Person (the ) is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia that expressly assumes all of the Company's obligations under the Securities and this Indenture pursuant to a supplement hereto executed and delivered to the Trustee;
"Surviving Entity"
(2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction or series of related transactions, no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing; and
(3) the Company or the Surviving Entity shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel stating that the transaction or series of related transactions and any supplement hereto complies with the terms of this Indenture.
If any consolidation or merger or any sale, assignment, conveyance, lease, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of its assets occurs in accordance with the terms hereof, the Surviving Entity shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such Surviving Entity had been named as the Company. The Company shall (except in the case of a lease) be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and any Securities issued hereunder, and may be liquidated and dissolved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if all of the Securities outstanding under the Indenture have the benefit of Securities Guarantees, the Company may merge or consolidate into or with, or directly or indirectly, sell, assign, convey, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of all of its assets, to any Guarantor of the Securities.
Section 5.01 . Redemption of Securities at the election of the Company or otherwise, as permitted or required by any provision of this Indenture, shall be made in accordance with such provision and (except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series) this Article V.
Applicability of Article
 
Section 5.02 . In case of any redemption of any series of Securities at the election of the Company, the Company shall, upon not later than the earlier of the date that is 45 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company or the date on which notice is given to the Holders (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee in writing of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed and shall deliver to the Trustee such documentation and records as shall enable the Trustee to select the Securities of such series to be redeemed pursuant to Section 5.03.
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
Section 5.03 . If fewer than all of the Securities of any series are to be redeemed at any time, the Trustee will, subject to applicable law, select Securities of any series for redemption as follows:
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed
(1) if the Securities are Global Securities, in accordance with the standard procedures of DTC or any successory Depositary;
(2) if the Securities are not Global Securities then held by DTC or a successor Depositary, on a pro rata basis, by lot or by any other method the Trustee deems fair and appropriate; and
(3) if the Securities are listed on any national securities exchange, in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange on which the Securities are listed.
Section 5.04 . Notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided for in Section 12.02 not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if such notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Securities or a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture. Notice of any redemption may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to one or more conditions precedent (such as the consummation of refinancings or acquisitions, whether of the Company or by the Company). The Trustee shall give notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; , , that the Company shall deliver to the Trustee, at least 45 days prior to the Redemption Date (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice at the Company's expense and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the following items.
Notice of Redemption
provided
however
All notices of redemption shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date;
(2) the redemption price and the amount of accrued interest and Additional Amounts, if any, to the Redemption Date payable as provided in Section 5.06;
(3) if less than all outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, the identification of the particular Securities (or portion thereof) to be redeemed, as well as the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be redeemed and the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be outstanding after such partial redemption;
 
(4) in case any Securities are to be redeemed in part only, the notice which relates to such Securities shall state that on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of such Securities, the Holder will receive, without charge, a new Security or Securities of authorized denominations for the principal amount thereof remaining unredeemed;
(5) that on the Redemption Date the redemption price (and accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date payable as provided in Section 5.06) will become due and payable upon each such Security, or the portion thereof, to be redeemed, and, unless the Company defaults in making the redemption payment, that interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on Securities (or the portions thereof) called for redemption will cease to accrue on and after said date;
(6) the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any;
(7) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
(8) that Securities called for redemption (other than a Global Note) must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
(9) the CUSIP, ISIN or Common Code number, and that no representation is made as to the accuracy or correctness of the CUSIP, ISIN or Common Code number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Securities; and
(10) the section of this Indenture and the paragraph of the Securities pursuant to which the Securities are to be redeemed.
Any redemption and notice thereof pursuant to this Indenture may, in the Company's discretion, be subject to the satisfaction of one or more conditions.
Section 5.05 . Not later than 11:00 a.m. New York time on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.06) an amount of money sufficient to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
Deposit of Redemption Price
Section 5.06 . Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, unless the notice of redemption is subject to one or more conditions precedent which have not been satisfied, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the redemption price therein specified (together with accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Amounts, if any, to the Redemption Date), and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the redemption price and accrued interest and Additional Amounts, if any) such Securities shall cease to bear interest and Additional Amounts, if any. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the redemption price, together with accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Amounts, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest and Additional Amounts, if any, due on an interest payment date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date).
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
 
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest and Additional Amounts, if any, from the Redemption Date at the rate borne by the Securities.
Section 5.07 . Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part (pursuant to the provisions of this Article V) shall be surrendered at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.05 (with, if the Company or the Trustee so require, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute and, if applicable, each Guarantor with respect to such series shall execute the Notation of Guarantee relating to such Security, if any, and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery to the Holder of such Security at the expense of the Company, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered, that each such new Security will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. No Securities of $2,000 or less may be redeemed in part.
Securities Redeemed in Part
provided
Section 6.01 . Unless either inapplicable to a particular series or specifically deleted or modified in or pursuant to the supplemental indenture, Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or Company Order establishing such series of Securities or in the form of Security for such series, an wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, occurs if:
Events of Default
"Event of Default,"
(1) the Company defaults in the payment of any installment of interest on or Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to any Security of that series under this Indenture when due, continued for 30 days;
(2) the Company defaults in the payment when due (at Stated Maturity, upon acceleration, redemption, required repurchase or otherwise) of the principal of, or premium, if any, on the Securities of that series;
(3) the Company fails (a) to comply with the provisions of Section 4.01 hereof, or (b) for 180 days after written notice to the Company by the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that series issued under this Indenture to comply with the provisions of Section 3.02 hereof;
(4) the Company fails for 90 days after written notice to the Company by the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that series issued under this Indenture to comply with any of the other covenants or agreements in this Indenture applicable to the Securities of that series or in the Securities of that series;
(5) the Company fails to deposit any sinking fund payment, if any, when due, in respect of any Security of that series;
(6) (a) any Securities Guarantee of that series shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or ceases for any reason to be in full force and effect (other than in accordance with the terms of this Indenture) or (b) any Guarantor of
 
that series, or any Person acting on behalf of any Guarantor, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under its Securities Guarantee (except pursuant to the release or termination of such Securities Guarantee in accordance with this Indenture); and
(7) (a) the Company or any Significant Subsidiary:
(i) commences a voluntary case or proceeding;
(ii) consents to the entry of a judgment, decree or order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding;
(iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property;
(iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
(v) consents to or acquiesces in the institution of a bankruptcy or an insolvency proceeding against it;
or takes any comparable action under any foreign laws relating to insolvency; or
(b) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
(i) is for relief against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary;
(ii) appoints a Custodian of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary; or
(iii) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary;
or any similar relief is granted under any foreign laws and the order, decree or relief remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days.
Section 6.02 . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of such series, if any Event of Default with respect to any Securities of such series at the time outstanding (other than those of the type described in clause (7) of Section 6.01) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may, and at the direction of the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of outstanding Securities of such series shall, declare the principal of all the Securities of that series, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Amounts, if any, and premium, if any, to be due and payable immediately by notice in writing to the Company and the Trustee specifying the respective Event of Default and that such notice is a notice of acceleration, and the same shall become immediately due and payable.
Acceleration
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, in the case of an Event of Default with respect to such series specified in clause (7) of Section 6.01 hereof, all outstanding Securities of such series shall become due and payable immediately without further action or notice by the Trustee or the Holders. Holders may not enforce this Indenture or the Securities except as provided in this Indenture.
 
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, at any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Securities of such series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that series then outstanding (by written notice to the Trustee) may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of that series, rescind and cancel such declaration and its consequences if:
(1) the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction;
(2) all existing Defaults and Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series have been cured or waived except nonpayment of principal of or interest on the Securities of that series that has become due solely by reason of such declaration of acceleration;
(3) to the extent the payment of such interest is lawful, interest (at the same rate specified in the Securities of such series) on overdue installments of interest and Additional Amounts, if any, and overdue payments of principal which has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration has been paid;
(4) the Company has paid the Trustee its reasonable compensation and reimbursed the Trustee for its reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances; and
(5) in the event of the cure or waiver of an Event of Default of the type described in (7) of Section 6.01, the Trustee has received an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel that such Event of Default has been cured or waived.
Section 6.03 . If an Event of Default with respect to any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities of such series or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities of such series or this Indenture with respect to such series.
Other Remedies
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or any Holder may be exercised from time to time, and as often as deemed expedient, by the Trustee or the Holders, as the case may be.
Section 6.04 . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of such series by written notice to the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series, (a) waive, by their consent (including, without limitation consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, Securities of such series), an existing Default or Event of Default, with respect to such series and its consequences or compliance with any provisions except (i) a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on a Security of such series or (ii) a Default or Event of Default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of each Holder affected and (b) rescind any such acceleration with respect to the Securities of such series and its consequences if rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction. When a Default or Event of Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any consequent right.
Waiver of Past Defaults
 
Section 6.05 . With respect to Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such series may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or, subject to Section 7.01 and Section 7.02, that the Trustee determines is unduly prejudicial to the rights of the other Holders or would involve the Trustee in personal liability. Prior to taking any action hereunder, the Trustee shall be entitled to indemnification satisfactory to it in its sole discretion against all losses and expenses caused by taking or not taking such action.
Control by Majority
Section 6.06 . Subject to Section 6.07, a Holder of a Security of any series may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities of such series or any related Securities Guarantees unless:
Limitation on Suits
(1) such Holder has previously given to the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default is continuing with respect to such series;
(2) Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such series have requested in writing that the Trustee pursue the remedy;
(3) such Holders have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense;
(4) the Trustee has not complied with such request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer of security or indemnity; and
(5) the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such series have not given the Trustee a direction that is inconsistent with such request within such 60-day period.
A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders).
Section 6.07 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture (including, without limitation, Section 6.06), the right of any Holder to receive payment of principal of, premium (if any) or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, when due on the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
Section 6.08 . If an Event of Default specified in clauses (1) or (2) of Section 6.01 occurs and is continuing with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount then due and owing (together with interest on any unpaid interest to the extent lawful) with respect to such series and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07.
Collection Suit by Trustee
 
Section 6.09 . The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company, its Subsidiaries or its or their respective creditors or properties and, unless prohibited by law or applicable regulations, may vote on behalf of the Holders in any election of a trustee in bankruptcy or other Person performing similar functions, and any Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07. To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
Section 6.10 . If the Trustee collects any money or property pursuant to this Article VI, it shall pay out the money or property in the following order:
Priorities
: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07;
FIRST
: to Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, for principal, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, respectively; and
SECOND
: to the Company or any Guarantors or to such other party as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
THIRD
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section 6.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Company shall mail to each Holder and the Trustee a notice that states the record date, the payment date and amount to be paid.
Section 6.11 . In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by the Company, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in outstanding principal amount of the Securities of any series.
Undertaking for Costs
 
Section 7.01
Duties of Trustee.
(a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent Person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such Person's own affairs; provided that if an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise the rights or powers under this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity or security against loss, liability or expense satisfactory to the Trustee in its sole discretion.
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series:
(1) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates, opinions or orders furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provisions hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall examine such certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform on their face to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(1) this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 7.01;
(2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
(3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05.
(d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 7.01.
(e) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company.
(f) Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law or any other provision of this Indenture.
 
(g) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers.
(h) Every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 7.01.
(i) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request or direction from the Company shall be sufficient if evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order.
(j) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
Section 7.02 . Subject to Section 7.01:
Rights of Trustee
(a) The Trustee may conclusively rely on any document (whether in its original, facsimile form or in PDF format) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
(b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate and/or an Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on an Officers' Certificate and/or Opinion of Counsel.
(c) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
(d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
(e) The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and the advice or opinion of counsel with respect to legal matters relating to this Indenture and the Securities shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, omitted or suffered by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
(f) The Trustee is not required to make any inquiry or investigation into facts or matters stated in any document but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit and, if the Trustee determines to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company personally or by agent, in which case the Company shall be responsible for the reasonable expenses of such investigation.
(g) The Trustee is not required to take notice and shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default hereunder with respect to any series of Securities, unless a Trust Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or has received notice in writing of such Default or Event of Default from the Company or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then outstanding and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture, and in the absence of any such notice, the Trustee may conclusively assume that no such Default or Event of Default exists.
 
(h) The Trustee is not required to give any bond or surety with respect to the performance of its duties or the exercise of its powers under this Indenture.
(i) In the event the Trustee receives inconsistent or conflicting requests and indemnity from two or more groups of Holders of Securities, each representing less than the aggregate principal amount of Securities outstanding required to take any action thereunder, the Trustee, in its sole discretion may determine what action, if any, shall be taken.
(j) The Trustee's immunities and protections from liability and its right to indemnification in connection with the performance of its duties under this Indenture shall extend to the Trustee's officers, directors, agents, attorneys and employees and to the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder. Such immunities and protections and right to indemnification, together with the Trustee's right to compensation, shall survive the Trustee's resignation or removal, the discharge of this Indenture and final payments of the Securities.
(k) The permissive right of the Trustee to take actions permitted by this Indenture shall not be construed as an obligation or duty to do so.
(l) The Trustee shall have no duty to inquire as to the performance of the Company's covenants herein.
(m) Any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution.
(n) In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
(o) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
Section 7.03 . The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, co-registrar or co-paying agent may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Section 7.10 and Section 7.11.
Individual Rights of Trustee
Section 7.04 . The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Securities, and it shall not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture or in any document issued in connection with the sale of the Securities or in the Securities other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication.
Trustee's Disclaimer
 
Section 7.05 . If a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series occurs and is continuing and if a Trust Officer has actual knowledge thereof, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of a Security of such series notice of the Default or Event of Default within the later of 30 days after obtaining such knowledge and 90 days after it occurs, unless the Default was already cured or waived. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on any Security of any series, the Trustee may withhold the notice if it in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Holders of such series.
Notice of Defaults
Section 7.06 . Within 60 days after each May 15 beginning with the May 15 following the date of this Indenture and for so long as the Securities of any series remain outstanding, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of Securities of such series a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA  313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA  313(b). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail all reports required by TIA  313(c).
Reports by Trustee to Holders
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders of Securities of any series shall be filed with the SEC and each stock exchange (if any) on which the Securities of such series are listed. The Company agrees to notify promptly the Trustee in writing whenever the Securities of any series become listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
Section 7.07 . The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation for its acceptance of this Indenture and services hereunder as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee promptly upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred or made by it, including costs of collection, costs of preparing and reviewing reports, certificates and other documents, costs of preparation and mailing of notices to Holders, in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee's agents, counsel, accountants and experts. The Company shall indemnify the Trustee against any and all losses, liabilities, damages, claims, penalties, fines or expenses (including reasonable attorneys' and agents' fees and expenses) (for purposes of this Section 7.07, ) incurred by it in connection with the administration of this trust and the performance of its duties hereunder, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Indenture (including this Section 7.07) and of defending itself against any claims (whether asserted by any Holder, the Company or otherwise), except to the extent such losses may be attributable to its negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall provide reasonable cooperation at the Company's expense in the defense. The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel provided that the Company shall not be required to pay such fees and expenses if it assumes the Trustee's defense, and, in the reasonable judgment of outside counsel to the Trustee, there is no conflict of interest between the Company and the Trustee in connection with such defense. The Company shall not be under any obligation to pay for any written settlement without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably delayed, conditioned or withheld. The Company need not reimburse any expense incurred by the Trustee through the Trustee's own willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith.
Compensation and Indemnity
"losses"
To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee other than money or property held in trust to pay principal of, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on particular Securities.
 
The Company's payment obligations pursuant to this Section 7.07 shall survive the discharge of this Indenture, the resignation or removal of the Trustee and payment in full of the Securities. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in clause (7) of Section 6.01 with respect to the Company, the expenses are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
Section 7.08 . No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee. The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by so notifying the Company. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any series may remove the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series by so notifying the Trustee and may appoint a successor Trustee. The Company shall remove the Trustee if:
Replacement of Trustee
(1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
(2) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
(3) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
(4) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
If the Trustee resigns or is removed by the Company or by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any series and such Holders of such series do not reasonably promptly appoint a successor Trustee, or if a vacancy exists in the office of the Trustee for any reason (the Trustee in such event being referred to herein as the retiring Trustee), the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee with respect to such series.
If a successor Trustee with respect to Securities of any series does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of such series may petition, at the Company's expense, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to Securities of such series.
If the Trustee with respect to the Securities of a series fails to comply with Section 7.10, unless the Trustee's duty to resign is stayed as provided in TIA  310(b), any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to such series.
In case of the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, each such successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee, to the Company and to any Guarantors. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall have all the rights, power and duties of the retiring Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07.
In case of the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, any Guarantors, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series shall execute and deliver an indenture
 
supplemental hereto in which each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and that (1) shall confer to each successor Trustee all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall confirm that all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee. Nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust, and each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee. Upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates. On request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall transfer to such successor Trustee all property held by such retiring Trustee as Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates. Such retiring Trustees shall, however, have the right to deduct its unpaid fees and expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses.
Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
So long as no Event of Default, or no event which is, or after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become, an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing, and except with respect to a Trustee appointed by the act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of then outstanding Securities of any series, if the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee (1) a Board Resolution appointing a successor Trustee, effective as of a date specified therein (which date shall be no sooner than 45 days after the date of such delivery, unless a shorter period shall be acceptable to the Trustee), and (2) an instrument of acceptance of such appointment, effective as of such date, by such successor Trustee, then the Trustee shall be deemed removed, the successor Trustee shall be deemed to have been appointed by the Company and such appointment shall be deemed to have been accepted as contemplated, all as of such date, and all other provisions of this Section 7.08 shall be applicable to such removal, appointment and acceptance except to the extent inconsistent with this subsection.
Section 7.09 . If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation or banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee. The predecessor Trustee shall have no liability for any action or inaction by any successor Trustee.
Successor Trustee by Merger
In case at the time such successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture, any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor trustee, and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor to the Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture.
 
Section 7.10 . The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA  310(a). The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50.0 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with TIA  310(b); , , that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA  310(b)(1) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA  310(b)(1) are met.
Eligibility; Disqualification
provided
however
Section 7.11 . The Trustee shall comply with TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
Section 8.01 . Unless otherwise designated pursuant to clause (20) of Section 2.01, the Securities of any series shall be subject to defeasance or covenant defeasance pursuant to Section 8.02 or Section 8.03, in accordance with any applicable requirements provided pursuant to Section 2.01 and upon compliance with the conditions set forth in this Article VIII. The Company may, at its option and at any time, elect to have either Section 8.02 or Section 8.03 hereof be applied to all outstanding Securities of any series so subject to defeasance or covenant defeasance. Any such election shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution of the Company or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for such Securities.
Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
Section 8.02 . Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.02 with respect to Securities of any series, the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from its Obligations with respect to all outstanding Securities of such series on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, ) and each Guarantor, if applicable, shall be released and relieved from all of its Obligations under its Securities Guarantee with respect to such series. For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the outstanding Securities with respect to such series, which shall thereafter be deemed to be only for the purposes of Section 8.05 hereof and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in clauses (a) through (e) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under the Securities with respect to such series and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (a) the rights of Holders of outstanding Securities with respect to such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 8.04 and Section 8.05 hereof, and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on such Securities when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Article II and Section 3.01 hereof, (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Company's and any Guarantors' obligations in connection therewith, (d) the optional redemption provisions, if any, with respect to such Securities, and (e) this Article VIII. If the Company exercises under Section 8.01 hereof the option applicable to this Section 8.02, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, payment of the Securities with respect to such series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default. Subject to compliance with this Article VIII, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 8.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 8.03 hereof.
Legal Defeasance and Discharge
"Legal Defeasance"
"outstanding"
 
Section 8.03 . Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03 with respect to Securities of any series, the Company shall, with respect to such series of Securities, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be released from its obligations under the covenants contained in Section 3.02, Section 3.04, Section 4.01, and Article X, and any other covenants specified pursuant to Section 2.01 with respect to the outstanding Securities of such series, on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof are satisfied (hereinafter, ) and each Guarantor, if applicable, shall be released from all of its obligations under its Securities Guarantee with respect to such series of Securities, and the Securities of such series shall thereafter be deemed not for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders of such series (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Securities shall not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Securities of such series, the Company and any Guarantors may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.01 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby. If the Company exercises under Section 8.01 hereof the option applicable to this Section 8.03, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, payment of the Securities of such series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default specified in clauses (3), (4) (with respect to Section 3.04) and (6) of such Section 6.01.
Covenant Defeasance
"Covenant Defeasance"
"outstanding"
"outstanding"
Section 8.04 . The following shall be the conditions to the application of either Section 8.02 or Section 8.03 hereof to the outstanding Securities of any series.
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance
In order to exercise Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance with respect to the Securities of any series:
(1) the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars, and non-callable Government Securities, in amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized investment bank, appraisal firm or firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, and premium, if any, on the outstanding Securities of such series on the stated date for payment or on the applicable Redemption Date, as the case may be, and the Company must specify whether the Securities of such series are being defeased to such stated date for payment or to a particular Redemption Date;
(2) in the case of Legal Defeasance, the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that: (a) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling; or (b) since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel will confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and shall be subject to federal income tax in the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
 
(3) in the case of Covenant Defeasance, the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that Holders of the outstanding Securities of such series shall not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and shall be subject to federal income tax in the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
(4) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and be continuing with respect to the Securities of such series on the date of such deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit);
(5) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument (other than this Indenture) to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound;
(6) the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of Securities of such series over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company or others; and
(7) the Company must deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
Section 8.05 . Subject to Section 8.06 hereof, all cash and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee), (collectively for purposes of this Section 8.05, the ) pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof in respect of the outstanding Securities of such series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities of such series and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of Securities of such series of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, but such cash and securities need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Deposited Cash and Government Securities to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
"Trustee"
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Securities of such series.
Anything in this Article VIII to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any cash or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 8.04 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized independent registered public accounting firm expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the certification delivered under clause (1) of Section 8.04 hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
Section 8.06 . Any cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, on, or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on, any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for one year after such principal, premium, if any, or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request (unless an abandoned property law designates another Person) or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and such Holder shall thereafter, as an unsecured creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such cash and securities, and all liability of the Company as Trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease.
Repayment to Company
Section 8.07 . If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any cash or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with Section 8.02, Section 8.03 or Section 8.05 hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such cash and securities in accordance with Section 8.02, Section 8.03 or Section 8.05 hereof, as the case may be; , , that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, on, or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on, any Security of such series following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such series to receive such payment from the cash and securities held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
provided
however
Section 9.01 . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, the Company, any Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture, the Securities or the Securities Guarantees without notice to or consent of any Holder:
Without Consent of Holders
(1) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency that does not adversely affect Holders of Securities of the relevant series in any material respect;
(2) to provide for the assumption of the Company's or a Guarantor's obligations to Holders of Securities of any series and Securities Guarantees in the case of a merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's or such Guarantor's properties or assets, as applicable, in each case that is permitted under this Indenture;
(3) to provide any security for or provide or modify any Securities Guarantee of the Securities of any series, or release any Securities Guarantee of the Securities of any series, so long as such modification or release is otherwise permitted under this Indenture, or to add any Guarantor with respect to the Securities of any series by executing a supplemental indenture and/or a Securities Guarantee with respect to such series;
(4) to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act;
(5) to add covenants for the benefit of the Holders to the Securities of any series or to surrender any rights we or any Guarantor have under this Indenture;
 
(6) to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of the Securities (and, if any such Event of Default is applicable to less than all series of Securities, specifying the series to which such Event of Default is applicable);
(7) to add circumstances under which we will pay additional interest on the Securities of the relevant series;
(8) to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of Securities of any series and Securities Guarantees or that does not adversely affect the rights under this Indenture of any such Holder in any material respect;
(9) to conform the text of this Indenture or any Securities to the description thereof in any prospectus or prospectus supplement of the Company with respect to the offer and sale of Securities of any series, to the extent that such provision is inconsistent with a provision of this Indenture or the Securities;
(10) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Section 2.01;
(11) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities;
(12) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no outstanding Security of any series created prior to the execution of such amendment or supplemental indenture that is adversely affected in any material respect by such change in or elimination of such provision;
(13) to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to Section 8.01; , that any such action shall not adversely affect the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series or any other series of Securities in any material respect; or
provided, however
(14) to evidence and provide for the acceptance under this Indenture of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts under this Indenture.
After an amendment under this Indenture becomes effective, the Company is required to mail to the Holders of each Security affected thereby a notice briefly describing such amendment. However, the failure to give such notice to all the Holders of each Security affected thereof, or any defect therein, will not impair or affect the validity of the amendment or supplemental indenture under this Section 9.01.
Section 9.02 . Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, except as provided below in this Section 9.02, the Company, any Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture with the consent (including consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or a tender offer or exchange offer for, Securities) of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of each series affected by such amendment or supplement (acting as separate classes).
With Consent of Holders
 
Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by a Board Resolution, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of the Holders as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 9.05, the Trustee shall, subject to Section 9.06, join with the Company and any Guarantors in the execution of such amendment or supplemental indenture.
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of one or more series or of all series affected by such waiver (acting as separate classes) may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Company or any Guarantor with any provision of this Indenture with respect to Securities of such series (including waivers obtained in connection with a purchase of, or a tender offer or exchange offer for, Securities of such series).
However, except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of any series, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment, supplement or waiver may not (with respect to any Securities held by a non-consenting Holder):
(1) make any change in the percentage of principal amount of Securities of that series whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver or to make any change in this provision for modification;
(2) reduce any rate of interest or change the time for payment of interest on the Securities of that series;
(3) reduce the principal amount of the Securities of that series or change their Stated Maturity;
(4) make payments on the Securities payable in currency other than as originally stated in the Securities of that series;
(5) reduce the amount payable, including any premium payable upon, the optional or mandatory redemption or repurchase of any Security or change the time (other than amendments related to notice provisions) at which any Security may be redeemed;
(6) release any Guarantor from any of its obligations under its Security Guarantee or the Indenture other than in accordance with the terms of the Indenture;
(7) change the provisions relating to the waiver of past Defaults or impair the Holder's right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on the Securities (other than as permitted in clause (8) below); or
(8) waive a continuing Default or Event of Default regarding any principal or interest payment on the Securities of that series (except a rescission of acceleration of the Securities by Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of that series and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration).
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance of the proposed amendment.
 
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of any other series.
A consent to any amendment or waiver under this Indenture by any Holder of the Securities given in connection with a tender of such Holder's Securities will not be rendered invalid by such tender. After an amendment under this Section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to Holders of each Security affected thereby a notice briefly describing such amendment. The failure to give such notice to all Holders of each Security affected thereby, or any defect therein, shall not impair or affect the validity of an amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver under this Section 9.02.
Section 9.03 . Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Securities shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as then in effect.
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
Section 9.04 . A consent to an amendment or a waiver by a Holder of a Security shall be in writing and bind the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent or waiver is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent or waiver as to such Holder's Security or portion of the Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment or waiver becomes effective. After an amendment or waiver becomes effective with respect to a series of Securities, it shall bind every Holder of Securities of such series.
Revocation and Effect of Consents and Waivers
For purposes of this Indenture, the written consent of the Holder of a Global Security shall be deemed to include any consent delivered by an Agent Member by electronic means in accordance with the Automated Tender Offer Procedures system or other customary procedures of, and pursuant to authorization by, DTC.
The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to give their consent or take any other action described above or required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving, making or taking of (i) any notice pursuant to clause (4) of Section 6.01 of any Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration pursuant to Section 6.02, (iii) any request to institute proceedings pursuant to clause (2) Section 6.06, or (iv) any direction referred to in Section 6.05, in each case with respect to such series. If a record date is so fixed, then notwithstanding the second preceding paragraph, those Persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled to give such consent or to revoke any consent previously given or to take any such action, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No such consent shall become valid or effective more than 180 days after such record date.
Section 9.05 . If an amendment changes the terms of a Security, the Trustee may require the Holder of the Security to deliver it to the Trustee. The Trustee may place an appropriate notation on the Security regarding the changed terms and return it to the Holder. Alternatively, if the Company so determines, the Company in exchange for the Security shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a new Security that reflects the changed terms. Failure to make the appropriate notation or to issue a new Security shall not affect the validity of such amendment.
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
 
Section 9.06 . The Trustee shall sign any amendment authorized pursuant to this Article IX if the amendment does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may but need not sign it. In signing such amendment the Trustee shall receive indemnity satisfactory to it and shall receive, and (subject to Section 7.01 and Section 7.02) shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture, that such amendment is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to customary exceptions, and that such amendment complies with the provisions hereof (including Section 9.03).
Trustee To Sign Amendments
Section 10.01 . Securities of any series that are to be guaranteed by the Securities Guarantees of any Guarantors shall be guaranteed by such Guarantors as shall be established pursuant to Section 2.01 as Guarantors with respect to the Securities of such series; provided that, prior to the authentication and delivery upon original issuance of Securities of any series that are to be guaranteed by a Person, the Company, the Trustee and such Person shall have entered into a supplemental indenture pursuant to clause (3) of Section 9.01 hereof whereby such Person shall have executed a Securities Guarantee under this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities as to which such Person has been so established pursuant to Section 2.01 as a Guarantor thereof and shall have made each of the covenants and agreements of a Guarantor hereunder with respect to each such series.
Securities Guarantee
Securities of any series that are to be guaranteed by the Securities Guarantees of any Guarantors shall be guaranteed in accordance with the terms of such Securities Guarantees as established pursuant to Section 2.01 with respect to such series of Securities and such Securities Guarantees thereof and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for such series of Securities and such Securities Guarantees thereof) in accordance with this Article X. Notwithstanding any provision of this Article X to the contrary, the provisions of this Article X relating to any Guarantor shall (i) be applicable only to, and inure solely to the benefit of, the Securities of any series designated, pursuant to Section 2.01, as entitled to the benefits of the related Securities Guarantee of such Guarantor with respect to such series and (ii) so be applicable, and inure to the benefit of, the Securities of such series except to the extent otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of such series.
Any Guarantor shall fully and unconditionally guarantee, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, jointly and severally with any other Guarantor, to each Holder of the Securities and the Trustee the full and punctual payment when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, of the principal of, premium, if any, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities and all other monetary Obligations of the Company under this Indenture. Any Guarantor shall further agree (to the extent permitted by law) that the Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound under this Article X notwithstanding any extension or renewal of any Obligation.
Any Guarantor shall waive presentation to, demand of payment from and protest to the Company of any of the Obligations and also shall waive notice of protest for nonpayment. Any Guarantor shall waive notice of any default under the Securities or the Obligations. The obligations of any Guarantor shall not be affected by (a) the failure of any Holder to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against the Company or any other Person under this Indenture, the Securities or any other agreement or otherwise; (b) any extension or renewal of any thereof; (c) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of any of the terms or provisions of this Indenture, the Securities or any other agreement (other than any such waiver, amendment or modification that expressly modifies a Guarantor's obligations); (d) the release of any collateral security held by any Holder or the Trustee for the Obligations of any of them; (e) the failure of any Holder to exercise any right or remedy against any other Guarantor; or (f) any change in the ownership of the Company.
 
Any Guarantor shall further agree that its Securities Guarantee constitutes a Guarantee of payment when due (and not a Guarantee of collection) and shall waive any right to require that any resort be had by any Holder to any Security held for payment of the Obligations.
Except as expressly set forth in Article VIII and Section 10.03, the obligations of each Guarantor shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason (other than payment of the Obligations in full), including any claim of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise, and shall not be subject to any defense of setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever or by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of each Guarantor shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by the failure of the Trustee or any Holder to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under this Indenture, the Securities or any other agreement, by any waiver or modification of any thereof (other than any waiver or modification that expressly modifies a Guarantor's obligations), by any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations, or by any other act or thing or omission or delay to do any other act or thing which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of any Guarantor or would otherwise operate as a discharge of such Guarantor as a matter of law or equity.
Each Guarantor shall further agree that its Securities Guarantee shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of principal of or interest or Additional Amounts, if any, on any of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of the Company or otherwise.
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which any Holder has at law or in equity against any Guarantor by virtue hereof, upon the failure of the Company to pay any of the Obligations when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, each Guarantor shall, upon receipt of written demand by the Trustee, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, in cash, to the Holders an amount equal to the sum of (i) the unpaid amount of such Obligations then due and owing and (ii) accrued and unpaid interest on such Obligations then due and owing (but only to the extent not prohibited by law) and except as provided in Section 10.03.
Each Guarantor shall further agree that, as between such Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the Obligations Guaranteed may be accelerated as provided in this Indenture for the purposes of its Securities Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the Obligations Guaranteed and (y) in the event of any such declaration of acceleration of such Obligations, such Obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantor for the purposes of the Securities Guarantee.
Each Guarantor also shall agree to pay any and all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by the Trustee or the Holders in enforcing any rights under this Section 10.01.
Section 10.02 . The Securities Guarantee of any Guarantor with respect to Securities of any series as to which such Guarantor has been established as a Guarantor pursuant to Section 2.01 shall be fully evidenced by such Guarantor's execution and delivery of a supplemental indenture hereto. Anything herein to the contrary
Execution and Delivery of Securities Guarantees; Notations of Guarantees
 
notwithstanding, there shall be no requirement that any Security having the benefit of a Securities Guarantee have endorsed thereon or attached thereto such Securities Guarantee or a notation of such Securities Guarantee. Solely with respect to Securities of any series that are entitled to the benefits of any Securities Guarantee of any Guarantor and as to which Notations of Guarantee are to be included on such Securities as designated pursuant to clause (9) of Section 2.01, to further evidence its Securities Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01 or otherwise established pursuant hereto with respect to Securities of such series, each of the Guarantors with respect to Securities of any series shall agree that a notation relating to such Securities Guarantee (the ), substantially in the form attached hereto as Annex A, shall be endorsed on each Security of such series entitled to the benefits of such Securities Guarantee authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, which Notation of Guarantee shall be executed by either manual or facsimile signature (or other electronic means) of an Officer of such Guarantor. Each of the Guarantors with respect to Securities of any series shall agree that its Securities Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01 or otherwise established pursuant hereto with respect to Securities of such series shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any absence of Notations of Guarantees as to such series or any failure to endorse on any Security the Notation of Guarantee relating to such Securities Guarantee. If any Officer of any Guarantor with respect to Securities of any series, whose signature is on the Notation of Guarantee on any Security of such series, no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates any Security or at any time thereafter, the Securities Guarantee of such Security shall be valid nevertheless. The delivery of any Security of a series entitled to the benefits of a Securities Guarantee under this Article X or otherwise established pursuant hereto by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of such Securities Guarantee on behalf of each Guarantor.
"Notation of Guarantee"
Section 10.03 .
Limitation on Liability; Termination, Release and Discharge
(a) The obligations of any Guarantor will be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor and after giving effect to any collections from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under its Securities Guarantee or pursuant to its contribution obligations under this Indenture, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Securities Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under federal or state law.
(b) The Securities Guarantee of a Guarantor shall be automatically and unconditionally released and discharged, without the consent of the Holders, and no further action by the Company, any Guarantor or the Trustee shall be required for such release (unless the Company shall notify the Trustee that no release and discharge shall occur as a result thereof) upon:
(1) the sale or other disposition (including by way of consolidation or merger) of such Guarantor to a Person other than the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction or series of transactions not prohibited by this Indenture;
(2) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor to a Person other than the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction or series of transactions not prohibited by this Indenture;
(3) upon Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance as provided in Article VIII or upon satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as provided in Article XI; or
 
(4) the delivery of an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee that such Guarantor does not guarantee the Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement.
(c) Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Securities Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Securities and for the other obligations of any Guarantor as provided in this Article X.
(d) At any time after the issuance of any series of Securities that is entitled to the benefits of any Securities Guarantee, including following the release of a Guarantor from its Securities Guarantee, the Company shall cause any of its Subsidiaries that is a guarantor under the Credit Agreement to promptly execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which such Subsidiary will become a Guarantor in respect of such series of Securities.
Section 10.04 . Any Guarantor, and by its acceptance thereof each Holder, shall confirm that it is the intention of all such parties that the Guarantee by such Guarantor pursuant to its Securities Guarantee not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of the Federal Bankruptcy Code, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Holders and each Guarantor shall irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor under its Securities Guarantee will be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor and after giving effect to any collections from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under its Securities Guarantee or pursuant to Section 10.05 hereof, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Securities Guarantee not constituting such a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer. This Section 10.04 is for the benefit of the creditors of each Guarantor.
Limitation of Guarantors' Liability
Section 10.05 . In order to provide for just and equitable contribution among the Guarantors, the Guarantors agree that in the event any payment or distribution is made by any Guarantor (a ) under its Securities Guarantee, such Funding Guarantor will be entitled to a contribution from each other Guarantor (if any) in a pro rata amount based on the Adjusted Net Assets of each Guarantor (including the Funding Guarantor) for all payments, damages and expenses incurred by that Funding Guarantor in discharging the Company's obligations with respect to the Securities or any other Guarantor's obligations with respect to its Securities Guarantee.
Contribution
"Funding Guarantor"
Section 10.06 .
Guarantors May Consolidate, etc., on Certain Terms
(a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 10.03 in connection with any release and discharge of a Guarantor, no Guarantor may consolidate or combine with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving person) or sell or convey all or substantially all of its assets to another Person whether or not affiliated with such Guarantor, unless the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation, combination or merger or the transferee Person (in each case if other than a Guarantor or the Company) unconditionally assumes all the obligations of such Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee.
In case of any such consolidation, merger, combination, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of such Securities Guarantee and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall become a Guarantor (and succeed to and be substituted for the predecessor to the extent of any release and discharge of such predecessor pursuant to Section 10.03).
 
(b) Notwithstanding clause (a) above, nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities shall prevent any consolidation, combination or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of the assets of a Guarantor to the Company or another Guarantor.
Section 11.01 . This Indenture will be discharged and will cease to be of further effect as to all Securities of any series issued hereunder (except as to surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of such Securities and as otherwise specified hereunder), when:
Satisfaction and Discharge
(1) either:
(a) all Securities of such series that have been authenticated, except lost, stolen or destroyed Securities that have been replaced or paid and Securities of such series for whose payment money has been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company, have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(b) all Securities of such series that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable or will become due and payable within one year by reason of the mailing of a notice of redemption or otherwise and the Company or any Guarantor has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the benefit of the Holders of Securities of such series, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Securities, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars and non-callable Government Securities, in amounts as will be sufficient without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium, if any, and accrued interest and Additional Amounts, if any, to the date of maturity or redemption;
(2) no Default or Event of Default with respect to such series has occurred and is continuing on the date of the deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit) and the deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other instrument to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound;
(3) the Company or any Guarantor has paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by it hereunder with respect to such series and pursuant to Section 7.07;
(4) the Company has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee hereunder to apply the deposited money toward the payment of such Securities at fixed maturity or the Redemption Date, as the case may be; and
 
(5) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, which state that all conditions precedent under this Indenture relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such series have been satisfied.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to Securities of any series, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 7.07 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (b) of Clause (1) of this Section with respect to such Securities, the obligations of the Company of such series under Section 3.03 and the obligations of the Trustee under Section 11.02 with respect to such Securities shall survive such satisfaction and discharge.
Section 11.02 . All money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.01 with respect to Securities of any series shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and any premium and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee. All moneys deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.01 (and held by it or any Paying Agent) for the payment of Securities subsequently converted shall be returned to the Company upon Company Request, to the extent originally deposited by the Company. The Company may direct by a Company Order the investment of any money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.01, without distinction between principal and income, in (1) United States Treasury Securities with a maturity of one year, or less or (2) a money market fund that invests solely in short term United States Treasury Securities, and from time to time the Company may direct the reinvestment of all or a portion of such money in other securities or funds meeting the criteria specified in preceding clauses (1) or (2) of this sentence.
Application of Trust Money
Section 12.01 . If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the provision required by the TIA shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the TIA which may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or excluded, as the case may be. Any Guarantor in addition to performing its obligations under its Securities Guarantee shall perform such other obligations as may be imposed upon it with respect to this Indenture under the TIA.
Trust Indenture Act Controls
Section 12.02 . Any notice or communication shall be in writing (including facsimile and electronic transmission in PDF format) and delivered in person, by facsimile (or other electronic means), by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery or mailed by first-class mail addressed as follows:
Notices
if to the Company or any Guarantors:
5215 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 2300
Irving, Texas 75039
Facsimile: (972) 443-6910
E-mail: lalverson@flowserve.com
Attention: Luke Alverson, Esq., Senior Counsel
 
if to the Trustee:
U.S. Bank National Association
5555 San Felipe Street, Suite 1150
Houston, Texas 77056
Facsimile: (713) 235-9213
E-mail: steven.finklea@usbank.com
Attention: Steven A. Finklea, CCTS Vice President
All notices and communications made, given, furnished or filed with or to the Trustee, the Company or any Guarantor shall be deemed to have been duly made, given furnished or filed: (i) at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; (ii) when receipt is acknowledged, if sent by facsimile (or other electronic means); (iii) the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next Business Day delivery; and (iv) five calendar days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed.
The Company, any Guarantors or the Trustee by notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
Any notice or communication mailed to a registered Holder shall be mailed to the Holder at the Holder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed. The Registrar shall provide the Company with address information with respect to the Holders as promptly as practicable following the Company's request therefor. Any notice or communication shall also be mailed to any Person described in TIA  3.13(c), to the extent required by the TIA.
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
Section 12.03 . Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
Communication by Holders with other Holders
Section 12.04 . Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take or refrain from taking any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
(1) an Officers' Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
(2) an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
 
Any certificate or opinion of an Officer of the Company or any Guarantor may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such Officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, and may state that it is so based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an Officer or Officers of the Company or such Guarantor stating that the information with respect to such factual matters known to the Company or such Guarantor, unless such counsel knows that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
Section 12.05 . Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture (except for the Certificate specified in Section 3.05) shall include:
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
(1) a statement that the individual making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such individual, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
Section 12.06 . In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Securities of any series have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Securities owned by the Company or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, for the purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Securities which a Trust Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Also, subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time shall be considered in any such determination.
When Securities Disregarded
Section 12.07 . The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by, or a meeting of, Holders. The Registrar and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar
Section 12.08 . A is a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which commercial banking institutions are authorized or required to be closed in New York, New York. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday, payment shall be made on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period. If a regular record date is a Legal Holiday, the record date shall not be affected.
Legal Holidays
"Legal Holiday"
 
Section 12.09 . THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THERETO (OTHER THAN N.Y. GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW  5-1401). EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
GOVERNING LAW; WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
Section 12.10 . No director, manager, officer, employee, incorporator, member, partner, stockholder or other owner of Capital Stock of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guarantor under the Securities, this Indenture or the Securities Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Securities by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others
Section 12.11 . All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors.
Successors
Section 12.12 . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture. The exchange of copies of this Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Indenture for all purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
Multiple Originals
Section 12.13 . In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
Section 12.14 . This Indenture may not be used to interpret any other indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or any Subsidiary or any other Person. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture or the Securities Guarantees.
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
Section 12.15 . The table of contents, cross-reference sheet and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Table of Contents; Headings
Section 12.16 . In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Force Majeure
 
Section 12.17 . The parties hereto acknowledge that in accordance with Section 326 of the U.S.A. Patriot Act, the Trustee, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is required to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account with the Trustee. The parties to this Indenture agree that they will provide the Trustee with such information as it may request in order for the Trustee to satisfy the requirements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
U.S.A. Patriot Act
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
Each of the Guarantors (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture) has fully, unconditionally and absolutely guaranteed, to the extent set forth in the Indenture and subject to the provisions in the Indenture, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on the Securities and all other amounts due and payable under the Indenture and the Securities by the Company.
The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Securities and to the Trustee pursuant to the Securities Guarantee and the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article X of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Securities Guarantee.
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION VERSION
This FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this ""), dated as of September 11, 2012, among FLOWSERVE CORPORATION, a New York corporation (the ""), the Guarantors listed in hereto (the ""), and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as trustee (the "").
First Supplemental Indenture
Company
Schedule I
Guarantors
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered an indenture, dated as of the date hereof (the ""), providing for the issuance by the Company from time to time of its debt securities to be issued in one or more series;
Indenture
WHEREAS, Sections 2.01 and 9.01 of the Indenture provide, among other things, that the Company and the Trustee may, without the consent of Holders, enter into indentures supplemental to the Indenture to provide for specific terms applicable to any series of notes;
WHEREAS, Section 2.01 of the Indenture provides, among other things, that there shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate or in a Company Order, or established in one or more indentures supplemental to the Indenture, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series, whether Securities of the series are entitled to the benefits of any Securities Guarantee of any Guarantor pursuant to the Indenture, the identity of any such Guarantors at the time of initial issuance of the Securities of such series, whether Notations of Guarantees are to be included on such Securities and any terms of such Securities Guarantee with respect to the Securities of the series in addition to those set forth in Article X of the Indenture, or any exceptions to or changes to those set forth in Article X of the Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 10.01 of the Indenture provides that prior to the authentication and delivery upon original issuance of Securities of any series that are to be guaranteed by a Person, the Company, the Trustee and such Person shall have entered into a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 9.01(3) of the Indenture whereby such Person shall have executed a Securities Guarantee under the Indenture with respect to any series of Securities as to which such Person has been so established pursuant to Section 2.01 of the Indenture as a Guarantor thereof;
WHEREAS, the Company intends by this First Supplemental Indenture to create and provide for the issuance of a new series of Securities to be designated as the "3.500% Senior Notes due 2022" (the "");
Notes
WHEREAS, the Company intends by this First Supplemental Indenture to provide that the Notes will be entitled to the benefits of the Securities Guarantee of the Guarantors;
WHEREAS, the Guarantors intend by this First Supplemental Indenture to execute a Securities Guarantee with respect to the Notes;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 9.01(3) and 9.01(10) of the Indenture, the Trustee, the Company and the Guarantors are authorized to execute and deliver this First Supplemental Indenture to amend or supplement the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder of Notes; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, issued upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Indenture and delivered as provided in the Indenture against payment therefor, valid, binding and legal obligations of the Company and the Guarantors according to their terms, and all actions required to be taken by the Company and the Guarantors under the Indenture to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal agreement of the Company and the Guarantors, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.01. .
Definitions
(a) All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined below shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.
(b) The following are definitions used in this First Supplemental Indenture, and to the extent that a term is defined both herein and in the Indenture, the definition in this First Supplemental Indenture shall govern with respect to the Notes.
"" with regard to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction with respect to any Principal Property means, at the time of determination, the present value of the total net amount of rent required to be paid under the lease during the remaining term thereof (including any period for which the lease has been extended), discounted at the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the terms of the lease (or, if not practicable to determine the rate, the weighted average interest rate per annum borne by the Notes then outstanding under the Indenture) compounded semi-annually. In the case of any lease that is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, the net amount of rent will be the lesser of (x) the net amount determined assuming termination upon the first date the lease may be terminated (in which case the net amount will also include the amount of the penalty, but will not include any rent that would be required to be paid under the lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or (y) the net amount determined assuming no such termination.
Attributable Debt
"" means a lease with respect to which the lessee is required concurrently to recognize the acquisition of an asset and the incurrence of a liability in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect in the United States as of the date of the Indenture.
Capital Lease
 
"" means the occurrence of any one of the following:
Change of Control
(1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries;
(2) the consummation of any transaction (including without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
(3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or the Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, at least a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4) the first day on which the majority of the members of the board of directors of the Company cease to be Continuing Directors; or
(5) the approval by the holders of the Voting Stock of the Company of any plan for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
"" means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "") commencing on the date of the Company's first public announcement of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control or, if earlier, upon abandonment of the Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings downgrade). Unless at least two of the three Rating Agencies are providing a rating for the Notes at the commencement of any Trigger Period, the Notes will be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade by each of the three Rating Agencies during that Trigger Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
Change of Control Triggering Event
Trigger Period
 
"" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all of these quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means, as of any date, total assets (excluding treasury stock, unamortized debt discount and expense, goodwill, trademarks, trade names, patents, deferred charges and other intangible assets) of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's board of directors who:
Continuing Director
(1) was a member of such board of directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or
(2) was nominated for election or elected or appointed to the Company's board of directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of the Company's board of directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"" means the Existing Credit Agreement as such agreement may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and any agreement, indenture or other documentation evidencing extensions, refinancings, replacements or restructurings of the credit facilities governed by the Existing Credit Agreement, whether the same or any other agent, agents, lenders or group of lenders is or are parties thereto.
Credit Agreement
"" means with respect to a Person all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all such obligations of any other Person for borrowed money guaranteed by such Person.
Debt
"" means the Credit Agreement dated as of August 20, 2012, among the Company, the subsidiaries of the Company identified therein, as the guarantors, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and letter of credit issuer, and the other lenders party thereto.
Existing Credit Agreement
 
"" means Fitch Inc., and its successors.
Fitch
"" means, on the date of determination, any Debt maturing by its terms more than 12 months from such date (notwithstanding that any portion of such Debt is included in current liabilities), including any Debt renewable or extendible at the option of the borrower to a date later than 12 months from such date of determination.
Funded Debt
"" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time in the United States.
GAAP
"" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's); a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P); and a rating of BBB- or better by Fitch (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Fitch).
Investment Grade
"" means, with respect to any Person, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or other similar encumbrance, or any interest or title of any vendor, lessor, lender or other secured party to or of such Person under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement or Capital Lease, upon or with respect to any property or asset of such Person.
Liens
"" means each Guarantor and any other Subsidiary of the Company which owns a Principal Property.
Material Subsidiary
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
"" means an individual, limited liability company, partnership, corporation, trust, unincorporated organization, association, joint venture or other entity or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" means any manufacturing plant, warehouse, office building or parcel of real property, including fixtures but excluding leases and other contract rights which might otherwise be deemed real property, owned by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, whether owned on the date of the Indenture or thereafter acquired, that has a gross book value (determined in accordance with GAAP) in excess of 1.0% of the Consolidated Tangible Assets of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. Any plant, warehouse, office building or parcel of real property or portion thereof will not be a Principal Property if the Company's board of directors in good faith determines it is not of material importance to the business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Principal Property
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company as Quotation Agent.
Quotation Agent
"" means each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; provided, that if any of Moody's, S&P and Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, Rating Agency shall include any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act, selected by the Company as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or all of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agency
 
"" means (1) J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and a Primary Treasury Dealer (as defined) selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and their respective successors, unless any of them ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), in which case the Company shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date (as defined in Section 2.04(c) of this First Supplemental Indenture) with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
"" means any arrangement with any Person relating to property now owned or hereafter acquired whereby the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company transfers such property to another Person and the Company or the Subsidiary leases or rents it from such Person.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" means any corporation, partnership or other legal entity (a) the accounts of which are consolidated with the Company's in accordance with GAAP and (b) of which, in the case of a corporation, more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries or, in the case of any partnership or other legal entity, more than 50% of the ordinary equity capital interests is, at the time, directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the Company or by one or more of the Subsidiaries or by the Company and one or more of the Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
"" means, for any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis), computed as of the second Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date, of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
 
"" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
Section 1.02. .
Other Definitions
 
Section 1.03. .
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
This First Supplemental Indenture is subject to the mandatory provisions of the TIA, which are incorporated by reference in and made a part of this First Supplemental Indenture. The following TIA terms have the following meanings:
"Commission" means the SEC.
"indenture securities" means the Notes.
"indenture security holder" means a Holder.
"indenture to be qualified" means this First Supplemental Indenture.
"indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee.
"obligor" on the indenture securities means the Company and the Guarantors and any other obligor on the indenture securities.
All other TIA terms used in this First Supplemental Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rules promulgated under the TIA have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
 
Section 2.01. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this First Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture, including the covenants set forth herein, are expressly and solely for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes. The Notes constitute a separate series of Securities as provided in Section 2.01 of the Indenture.
Application of this First Supplemental Indenture
Section 2.02. . In accordance with Section 2.01 of the Indenture, the Company hereby creates the Notes as a separate series of its Securities issued pursuant to the Indenture. The Notes shall be issued initially in an aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000.
Creation of the Notes
Section 2.03. . The Notes shall each be issued in the form of a Global Security, duly executed by the Company and the Guarantors and authenticated by the Trustee, which shall be deposited with the Trustee as custodian for DTC and registered in the name of "Cede & Co.," as the nominee of DTC. The Notes shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto. So long as DTC, or its nominee, is the registered owner of a Global Security, DTC or its nominee, as the case may be, shall be considered the sole owner or Holder of the Notes represented by such Global Security for all purposes under the Indenture and under such Notes. Ownership of beneficial interests in such Global Security shall be shown on, and transfers thereof will be effective only through, records maintained by DTC or its nominee (with respect to beneficial interests of participants) or by participants or Persons that hold interests through participants (with respect to beneficial interests of beneficial owners). No Notations of Guarantees are required to be included on any of the Notes.
Form of the Notes
Exhibit A
Section 2.04. .
Terms and Conditions of the Notes
The Notes shall be governed by all the terms and conditions of the Indenture, as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture. In particular, the following provisions shall be terms of the Notes:
(a) . The title of the Notes shall be as specified in the Recitals; and the aggregate principal amount of the Notes shall be unlimited.
Title and Conditions of the Notes
(b) . The Notes shall mature, and the principal of the Notes shall be due and payable in U.S. Dollars to the Holders thereof, together with all accrued and unpaid interest thereon, on September 15, 2022 (the "").
Stated Maturity
Maturity Date
 
(c) . The Notes shall bear interest at 3.500% per annum, from and including September 11, 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date (as defined hereafter) on which interest has been paid or provided for until the principal thereof becomes due and payable, and on any overdue principal. Interest shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. Interest on the Notes shall be payable semi-annually in arrears in U.S. Dollars on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing on March 15, 2013 (each such date, an "" for the purposes of the Notes under this First Supplemental Indenture). Payments of interest shall be made to the Person in whose name a Note (or predecessor Note) is registered (which shall initially be the Depositary) at the close of business on March 1 or September 1 (whether or not that date is a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date (each such date, a "" for the purposes of the Notes under this First Supplemental Indenture).
Payment of Principal and Interest
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
(d) . The Notes shall be issuable as registered securities as provided in Section 2.03 of this Article II. The form of the Notes shall be as set forth in attached hereto. The Notes shall be issued and may be transferred only in minimum denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. All payments of principal, Redemption Price, any purchase price relating to a Change of Control Offer and accrued unpaid interest in respect of the Notes shall be made by the Company as set forth in the Notes.
Registration and Form
Exhibit A
(e) . The provisions for legal defeasance in Section 8.02 of the Indenture, and the provisions for covenant defeasance in Section 8.03 of the Indenture, shall be applicable to the Notes. If the Company shall effect a defeasance of the Notes pursuant to Section 8.02 or Section 8.03 of the Indenture, the Company shall cease to have any obligation to comply with the covenants and agreements set forth in Articles IV and V of this First Supplemental Indenture.
Legal Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
(f) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in the Indenture, the Company may, from time to time, without the consent of or notice to the Holders, create and issue further securities having the same interest rate, maturity and other terms (except for the issue date, the public offering price and the first Interest Payment Date) as, ranking equally and ratably with, the Notes. Additional Notes issued in this manner shall be consolidated with and shall form a single series with the previously outstanding Notes.
Further Issuance
(g) . The Notes are subject to redemption by the Company in whole or in part in the manner described herein.
Redemption
(h) . The payment of the principal and any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes, whether at the Maturity Date, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, is fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed, jointly and severally, by the Guarantors as provided in Article X of the Indenture.
Guarantees
 
(i) . The Notes will be the Company's unsecured and unsubordinated obligations and will rank equally with all of its current and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, including any borrowings under the Existing Credit Agreement, and senior to all of its current and future subordinated debt. The Securities Guarantees will be the Guarantors' unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, and senior to all of the Guarantors' current and future subordinated debt.
Ranking
(j) . The Notes are not entitled to any sinking fund.
Sinking Fund
(k) . The Notes shall have such other terms and conditions as provided in the form thereof attached as hereto.
Other Terms and Conditions
Exhibit A
Section 3.01. . At any time prior to June 15, 2022, the Notes are subject to redemption, in whole or in part, from time to time, at the Company's option at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
Optional Redemption
 
 
At any time on or after June 15, 2022, the Company may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part from time to time, at its option, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed.
In each case, the Company will also pay the accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date.
Section 3.02. . Notwithstanding any provision hereunder or under the Indenture to the contrary, the Company and its Affiliates may purchase Notes from investors who are willing to sell from time to time, either in the open market at prevailing prices or in private transactions at negotiated prices. Notes that the Company or any of its Affiliates purchase may, at the Company's discretion, be held, resold or canceled.
Open Market Repurchases
 
Section 4.01. .
Change of Control
(a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has given written notice with respect to a redemption of the Notes as described under Section 3.01, each Holder of Notes will have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the ""), at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "").
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
(b) Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after the public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company will send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice will govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer. Such notice will state, among other things, the purchase date, which must be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, other than as may be required by law (the ""). The notice, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, will state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date. Holders of Notes electing to have Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender their Notes, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Note completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice, or transfer their Notes to the Paying Agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the applicable procedures of the Paying Agent, prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Payment Date
(c) On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the applicable Change of Control Offer, (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the applicable Change of Control Offer and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
(d) The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
(e) The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of such conflicts.
The covenants set forth in this Article V shall be applicable to the Company in addition to the covenants in Article III of the Indenture, which shall in all respects be applicable in respect of the Notes.
Section 5.01. .
Limitation on Liens
The Company will not, and will not permit any Material Subsidiary to, create, assume or permit to exist, any Lien, other than Permitted Liens, on any Principal Property, now owned or hereafter acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, to secure Debt, without effectively providing concurrently that the Notes are secured equally and ratably with such Debt, for so long as such Debt shall be so secured.
"Permitted Liens" means:
(1) Liens existing on the date of the Indenture, or any Lien in favor of the Trustee for the benefit of Holders of the Notes;
(2) Liens in favor of the Company or any Guarantor;
(3) Liens on any property existing at the time the Company or a Material Subsidiary acquired or leased such property, including property acquired by the Company or a Material Subsidiary through a merger or similar transaction;
(4) Liens on any Principal Property to secure all or part of the cost of acquisition, construction, development or improvement of such Principal Property, or to secure Debt incurred to provide funds for any such purposes, provided, that the commitment of the creditor to extend the credit secured by any such Lien shall have been obtained not later than 12 months after the later of (A) the completion of the acquisition, construction, development or improvement of such Principal Property and (B) the placing in operation of such Principal Property or of such Principal Property as so constructed, developed or improved;
(5) Liens on property of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Material Subsidiary;
 
(6) Liens imposed by law for taxes, assessments or charges of any governmental authority for claims which are not overdue for a period of more than 60 days, or to the extent that such Lien is being contested in good faith by appropriate actions and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained therefor;
(7) statutory Liens of landlords and Liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and other Liens imposed by law or created in the ordinary course of business which are not delinquent or remain payable without penalty or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate actions;
(8) Liens securing (i) the non-delinquent performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases or statutory obligations, (ii) surety bonds (excluding appeal bonds and other bonds posted in connection with court proceedings or judgments) and (iii) other non-delinquent obligations of a like nature (including those to secure health, safety and environmental obligations) in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(9) Liens created by or resulting from any litigation or other proceeding that is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, including Liens arising out of judgments or awards against the Company or its Subsidiaries with respect to which the Company or its Subsidiaries are in good faith prosecuting an appeal or proceedings for review or for which the time to make an appeal has not yet expired, and Liens relating to final unappealable judgment liens which are satisfied within 60 days of the date of judgment or Liens incurred by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for the purpose of obtaining a stay or discharge in the course of any litigation or proceeding to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party;
(10) easements, rights-of-way, zoning or any other restrictions, encroachments, protrusions and other similar encumbrances on real property which in the aggregate do not materially detract from the value of such property or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the Company's businesses or the Subsidiaries' businesses, taken as a whole;
(11) Liens securing obligations in respect of Capital Leases on assets subject to such leases, provided that such leases are not otherwise prohibited;
(12) any Lien renewing, extending or replacing any Lien referred to above, to the extent that (a) the principal amount of the indebtedness secured by such Lien is not increased and (b) no assets encumbered by any such Lien other than the assets permitted to be encumbered immediately prior to such renewal, extension, refinance or refund are encumbered thereby; or
 
(13) any other Lien on any of the Company's or its Subsidiaries' assets or properties that secure indebtedness, liabilities and obligations of the Company or its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount at the time of the creation of such Lien that, together with the amount of such indebtedness, liabilities and obligations secured by other Liens pursuant to this clause at such time, does not exceed an amount equal to 15% of the Company's Consolidated Tangible Assets (determined as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are available).
Section 5.02. .
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
The Company will not, and will not permit any Material Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction covering any Principal Property owned by the Company or any Material Subsidiary. However, a Sale and Leaseback Transaction will not be prohibited if:
(1) the transaction is permitted pursuant to the exception described in the last clause under Section 5.01;
(2) the proceeds of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction are at least equal to the fair value (as determined by the Company's Board of Directors in good faith) of the Principal Property leased pursuant to such transaction and an amount equal to the greater of (i) the net proceeds of the sale or transfer and (ii) the Attributable Debt of the Principal Property sold (as determined by the Company) is applied within 180 days of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction to either (x) the purchase or acquisition of, or, in the case of real property, the commencement of construction on or improvement of, property or assets, or (y) the voluntary retirement or repayment (other than at maturity or pursuant to a mandatory sinking fund or mandatory redemption provision) of Funded Debt of the Company (other than indebtedness subordinated to the Notes) or a Material Subsidiary, for money borrowed, maturing more than 12 months after the voluntary retirement;
(3) the lease is for a period not exceeding three years and by the end of which it is intended that the use of such Principal Property by the lessee will be discontinued; or
(4) the lease is with the Company or another Material Subsidiary.
Section 6.01. The events of default in Article VI of the Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes. In addition, the following shall be Events of Default with respect to the Notes:
(a) an event of default (i) under the terms of any indenture or instrument for borrowed money under which the Company or any of its subsidiaries has outstanding an aggregate principal amount of at least $60,000,000 or (ii) under the terms of our primary revolving bank facility, in each case, which event of default results in an acceleration of the payment of all or a portion of such indebtedness for money borrowed (which acceleration is not rescinded or annulled within 30 days after notice of such acceleration); and
 
(b) the entry against the Company, any Material Subsidiary or any Significant Subsidiary of one or more final judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount (as to all such judgments or orders) in excess of $60,000,000 (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer has been notified of the claim and does not dispute coverage) and (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (B) there is a period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect.
Section 7.01. . Each Guarantor hereby becomes a party to the Indenture as a Guarantor and as such shall have all of the rights and be subject to all of the obligations and agreements of a Guarantor under the Indenture. The Guarantors agree to be bound by all of the provisions of the Indenture applicable to a Guarantor and to perform all of the obligations and agreements of a Guarantor under the Indenture.
Agreements to be Bound
Section 7.02. . Each Guarantor hereby fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, jointly and severally with each other Guarantor, to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors, the full and punctual payment when due, whether at maturity, by redemption, acceleration or otherwise, of the obligations of the Company under the Notes and the other guaranteed obligations of the Company set forth in Article X of the Indenture. The terms of each Securities Guarantee are more fully set forth in Article X of the Indenture and each Guarantor agrees to be bound by such terms. Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the contrary, upon the release of any Securities Guarantee of a Guarantor pursuant to Section 10.03 of the Indenture, each reference to "Guarantor" herein and in the Notes shall exclude such Person.
Guarantees
Section 7.03. . The Company shall cause any Subsidiary of the Company that guarantees, directly or indirectly, any indebtedness of the Company under the Credit Agreement to at the same time, execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplement to the Indenture pursuant to which such Subsidiary will guarantee payment of the Notes and all other obligations of the Company on the same terms and conditions as those set forth in the Indenture. Thereafter, such Subsidiary shall be a Guarantor for all purposes of the Indenture until such Securities Guarantee is released in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
Future Guarantors
 
Section 8.01. .
Ratification of Indenture
This First Supplemental Indenture is executed and shall be constructed as an indenture supplement to the Indenture, and as supplemented and modified hereby, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and constructed as one and the same instrument.
Section 8.02. .
Trust Indenture Act Controls
If any provision of this First Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision that is required or deemed to be included in this First Supplemental Indenture by the TIA, the required or deemed provision shall control.
Section 8.03. .
Notices
All notices and other communications shall be given as provided in the Indenture; that notices to a Guarantor shall be given to such Guarantor in care of the Company.
provided
Section 8.04. .
Governing Law
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THERETO. EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 8.05. .
Successors
All agreements of the Company and the Guarantors in this First Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall bind their successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this First Supplemental Indenture shall bind its successors.
Section 8.06. .
Multiple Originals
The parties may sign any number of copies of this First Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this First Supplemental Indenture. The exchange of copies of this First Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by
 
facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original First Supplemental Indenture for all purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
Section 8.07. .
Headings
The headings of the Articles and Sections of this First Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Section 8.08.
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals
The recitals contained herein shall be taken as statements of the Company and the Guarantors, and the Trustee does not assume any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this First Supplemental Indenture and perform its obligations hereunder.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE I
FLOWSERVE HOLDINGS, INC.
FLOWSERVE INTERNATIONAL, INC.
FLOWSERVE US INC.
FLOWSERVE MANAGEMENT COMPANY
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A NOTE REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
CUSIP NO. [ - ]
ISIN NO. [ - ]
 
FLOWSERVE CORPORATION, a New York corporation (herein called the "Company"), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of [ - ] or such other principal amount as shall be set forth on Schedule I hereto on September 15, 2022 and to pay interest thereon at the rate of 3.500% per annum from and including September 11, 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing on March 15, 2013 (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, except as provided in the Indenture hereinafter referred to, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest, which will be the March 1 or September 1 (whether or not that date is a Business Day), as the case may be (each, a "Regular Record Date"), immediately preceding each Interest Payment Date. Any such
 
interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and either may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders not less than ten days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Note (including, without limitation, any Redemption Price or purchase price relating to a Change of Control Offer) will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose pursuant to the Indenture (initially the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee in New York, NY (the "Corporate Trust Office")), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Securities Register or (ii) by wire transfer to an account maintained by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Securities Register. Payments of principal and interest at maturity will be made against presentation of this Note at the Corporate Trust Office (or such other office as may be established pursuant to the Indenture), by check or wire transfer.
provided, however
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse side hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
Unless the Certificate of Authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee or an authenticating agent under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be to be duly executed as of the date set forth below.
Date:
 
Each of the Guarantors (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture) has fully, unconditionally and absolutely guaranteed, to the extent set forth in the Indenture and subject to the provisions in the Indenture, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on the Securities and all other amounts due and payable under the Indenture and the Securities by the Company.
The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Notes and to the Trustee pursuant to the Securities Guarantee and the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article X of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Securities Guarantee.
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
 
1. This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company designated as its 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "Notes") unlimited in aggregate principal amount issued and to be issued under an indenture, dated as of September 11, 2012, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor Trustee under the Indenture), and the first supplemental indenture, dated as of September 11, 2012 (the indenture, as so supplemented and as it may be further supplemented or amended from time to time, is herein referred to as the "Indenture"), between the Company, the guarantors named therein and the Trustee. Reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes, and the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The indebtedness of the Company evidenced by the Notes, including the principal thereof and interest thereon (including post-default interest), will constitute unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company's current and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
2. At any time prior to June 15, 2022, the Notes are subject to redemption, in whole or in part, from time to time, at the Company's option at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
 
 
At any time on or after June 15, 2022, the Company may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part from time to time, at its option, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed.
In each case, the Company will also pay the accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date.
Any notice to Holders of Notes of a redemption pursuant to this paragraph 2 hereof will include, among other things set forth in the Indenture, the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price (or the methodology for determining the Redemption Price), the amount of accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date, and the name and address of the Paying Agent.
 
3. Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has given written notice with respect to a redemption of the Notes pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Note, each Holder of Notes will have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase.
4. The payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Guarantors, on the terms set forth in the Indenture.
5. If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
6. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Guarantors and the rights of the Holders of Notes under the Indenture at any time by the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Notes at the time outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Notes at the time outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Notes, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
7. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provisions of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the times, places and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
8. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered on the Securities Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the Corporate Trust Office, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, and duly executed by the Holder hereof or such Holder's attorney, duly authorized in writing, on which instruction the Company can rely, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
9. The Notes are issuable only in fully registered form, without coupons, in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture, and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes in authorized denominations, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
10. No service charge shall be made to the Holder for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
11. Prior to the due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer or exchange, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee, nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
12. Interest on the Notes shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
13. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
14. No past, present or future director, manager, officer, employee, incorporator, member, partner, stockholder or other owner of Capital Stock of the Company or any Guarantor, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or of the Guarantors under the Notes, the Indenture, the Securities Guarantees or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. The waiver and release may not be effective to waive or release liabilities under the federal securities laws.
15. This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
16. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUT (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
17. Each Holder of this Note covenants and agrees by such Holder's acceptance thereof to comply with and be bound by the foregoing provisions.
18. THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THERETO. EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS NOTE.
19. All capitalized terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR
OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
Signature Guarantee:
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.01 of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.01 of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount in principal amount: $
                        
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Schedule I
The following increases or decreases in principal amount of this Global Security have been made:
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
September 11, 2012
Flowserve Corporation
5215 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 2300
Irving, Texas 75039
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to Flowserve Corporation, a New York corporation (the ""), Flowserve Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Flowserve International, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Flowserve Management Company, a Delaware statutory trust, and Flowserve US Inc., a Delaware corporation (Flowserve Holdings, Inc., Flowserve International, Inc., Flowserve Management Company and Flowserve US Inc., collectively, the ""), with respect to certain legal matters in connection with the offering and issuance of $500,000,000 principal amount of the Company's 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022 (the ""), and the guarantees thereof by the Guarantors (the "" and together with the Notes, the ""). The Securities are to be issued under that certain Indenture (the ""), entered into by and between the Company, as issuer, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K (the "") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on September 11, 2012, as supplemented by that certain First Supplemental Indenture (the ""), entered into by and among the Company, the Guarantors, as guarantors, and the Trustee, filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Form 8-K.
Company
Guarantors
Notes
Guarantees
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
Form 8-K
SEC
Supplemental Indenture
The Securities were offered and sold by the Company pursuant to a registration statement (the "") on Form S-3 (File No. 333-183634), as supplemented by that certain prospectus supplement dated September 6, 2012 (the "").
Registration Statement
Prospectus Supplement
We have examined and relied upon originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of (i) the certificate of incorporation and bylaws, certificate of trust and declaration of trust, or similar organizational documents, as applicable, of the Company and each of the Guarantors (each as has been amended to date), (ii) the Registration Statement and all exhibits thereto, (iii) the Prospectus Supplement, (iv) the minutes, records and resolutions of the proceedings of the Company and the Guarantors with respect to the filing of the Registration Statement and the issuance of the Securities, (v) the Indenture, (vi) the Supplemental Indenture, (vii) the form of global note representing the Notes and (viii) such other certificates, instruments and documents as we considered appropriate for purposes of the opinions hereafter expressed.
In making the foregoing examinations, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as certified or photostatic copies thereof and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents.
As to various questions of fact material to the opinions expressed below, we have, without independent third party verification of their accuracy, relied in part, and to the extent we deem reasonably necessary or appropriate, upon the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contained in such documents, records, certificates, instruments or representations furnished or made available to us by the Company and the Guarantors.
Flowserve Corporation
September 11, 2012
Page 2
 
In connection with this opinion, we have assumed that (i) the Company will continue to be incorporated and in good standing under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York, (ii) Flowserve Holdings, Inc., Flowserve International, Inc. and Flowserve US Inc. will continue to be incorporated and in good standing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), (iii) Flowserve Management Company will continue to be formed and in good standing under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act (the ""), (iv) the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (including post-effective amendments) will remain effective, (v) no stop order of the SEC preventing or suspending the use of the prospectus contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus Supplement will have been issued, (vi) the prospectus contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus Supplement will have been delivered to the purchaser of the Securities as required in accordance with applicable law; and (vii) all Securities will be issued and sold in compliance with applicable federal, state and other laws and in the manner stated in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, along with the Prospectus Supplement.
DGCL
DSTA
The opinions set forth below are subject to the following qualifications and exceptions:
(a) The opinions are subject to (i) the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, rearrangement, liquidation, conservatorship or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally, (ii) provisions of applicable law pertaining to the voidability of preferential or fraudulent transfers and conveyances and (iii) the fact that the remedy of specific performance and injunctive and other forms of equitable relief may be subject to equitable defenses and to the discretion of the court before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.
(b) The opinions are subject to the effect of general principles of equity, including (without limitation) concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, general matters of public policy and other similar doctrines affecting the enforceability of agreements generally (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
(c) The opinions expressed herein are limited to the laws of the State of New York. The Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees are governed by the laws of the State of New York. We express no opinion as to (i) the subject matter jurisdiction of the United States courts located in New York to adjudicate any controversy relating to the Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture, the Notes or the Guarantees or (ii) the enforceability of the choice of New York law or whether any court would give effect to such choice of law.
(d) The opinions are also subject to the qualification that certain of the remedial, waiver, and other provisions of the Securities may not be enforceable. However, based upon our judgment we do not believe that such unenforceability will render the Securities invalid as a whole or substantially interfere with the realization of the principal legal benefits to be provided by the Securities, except to the extent of any procedural delay which may result therefrom.
Flowserve Corporation
September 11, 2012
Page 3
 
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions, qualifications, limitations, and exceptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that when (a) the Securities have been duly established in conformity with the Indenture and Supplemental Indenture and duly authenticated by the Trustee and (b) such Securities have been duly executed and delivered against payment therefor in accordance with the Indenture and Supplemental Indenture and issued and sold as contemplated in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus Supplement, (i) the Notes will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company and (ii) each Guarantor's Guarantee will constitute the valid and binding obligation of such Guarantor as to the Notes.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Form 8-K that is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and to the use of our name under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus and Prospectus Supplement forming a part of the Registration Statement. In giving these consents, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
    
News Release
Investor Contact: Mike Mullin, Director Investor Relations (972) 443-6636
Media Contact: Steve Boone, Director Global Communications and Public Affairs, (972) 443-6644
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Flowserve Announces Proposed Offering of
$500 Million of Senior Notes Due 2022
DALLAS, September 6, 2012  Flowserve Corporation (NYSE:FLS), a leading provider of flow control products and services for the global infrastructure markets, today announced that it plans to offer $500 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2022 (the "Notes") in an underwritten public offering, subject to market conditions. The Notes will be senior unsecured obligations of the company and will rank equally with the company's existing and future senior unsecured debt.
The company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering for the retirement of debt and other general corporate purposes, including repurchases of shares of the company's common stock.
The offering of the Notes will be made pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. are acting as joint book running managers for the Notes offering. A copy of the preliminary prospectus for the offering may be obtained from the Securities and Exchange Commission's Web site at . In addition, a copy of the preliminary prospectus for the offering may be obtained from J.P. Morgan Securities LLC by calling (collect) (212) 834-4533, or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated by calling (toll-free) (800) 294-1322or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC by calling (toll-free) (800) 326-5897.
www.sec.gov
,
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities. Any offering of securities will be made only by means of a prospectus.
About Flowserve
Flowserve Corp. is one of the world's leading providers of fluid motion and control products and services. Operating in more than 55 countries, the company produces engineered and industrial pumps, seals and valves as well as a range of related flow management services. More information about Flowserve can be obtained by visiting the company's Web site at .
www.flowserve.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Words or phrases such as, "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts," "predicts" or other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which include, without limitation, statements regarding the consummation of the Notes offering and the use of proceeds from the offering.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT:
The forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on our current expectations, projections, estimates and assumptions. These statements are only predictions, not guarantees. Such forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from what is forecast in such forward-looking statements, and include, without limitation, the following: fluctuations in interest rates; disruption of credit and capital markets; a portion of our bookings may not lead to completed sales, and our ability to convert bookings into revenues at acceptable profit margins; changes in the global financial markets and the availability of capital and the potential for unexpected cancellations or delays of customer orders in our reported backlog; our dependence on our customers' ability to make required capital investment and maintenance expenditures; risks associated with cost overruns on fixed-fee projects and in taking customer orders for large complex custom engineered products; the substantial dependence of our sales on the success of the oil and gas, chemical, power generation and water management industries; the adverse impact of volatile raw materials prices on our products and operating margins; our ability to execute and realize the expected financial benefits from our strategic realignment initiatives; economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations, including military actions or trade embargoes that could affect customer markets, particularly Middle Eastern markets and global oil and gas producers, and non-compliance with U.S. export/re-export control, foreign corrupt practice laws, economic sanctions and import laws and regulations; our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including in hyperinflationary countries such as Venezuela; our furnishing of products and services to nuclear power plant facilities; potential adverse consequences resulting from litigation to which we are a party, such as litigation involving asbestos-containing material claims; a foreign government investigation regarding our participation in the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program; expectations regarding acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses; our relative geographical profitability and its impact on our utilization of deferred tax assets, including foreign tax credits; the potential adverse impact of an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets; our dependence upon third-party suppliers whose failure to perform timely could adversely affect our business operations; the highly competitive nature of the markets in which we operate; environmental compliance costs and liabilities; potential work stoppages and other labor matters; our inability to protect our intellectual property in the U.S., as well as in foreign countries; obligations under our defined benefit pension plans; and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
    
News Release
Investor Contact: Mike Mullin, Director Investor Relations (972) 443-6636
Media Contact: Steve Boone, Director Global Communications and Public Affairs, (972) 443-6644
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Flowserve Announces Pricing of
$500 Million of Senior Notes Due 2022
DALLAS, September 6, 2012  Flowserve Corporation (NYSE:FLS), a leading provider of flow control products and services for the global infrastructure markets, today announced that it has priced its previously announced underwritten offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "Notes"), at a price equal to 99.615% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes. The company anticipates that the offering will close on or around September 11, 2012, subject to customary closing conditions.
The company expects to receive net proceeds of approximately $493 million from the offering, after deducting discounts to the underwriters and estimated offering fees and expenses. The company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering for the retirement of debt and other general corporate purposes, including repurchases of shares of the company's common stock.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. are acting as joint book running managers for the Notes offering. When available, a copy of the prospectus for the offering may be obtained from the Securities and Exchange Commission's Web site at . In addition, a copy of the prospectus for the offering may be obtained from J.P. Morgan Securities LLC by calling (collect) (212) 834-4533, or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated by calling (toll-free) (800) 294-1322or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC by calling (toll-free) (800) 326-5897.
www.sec.gov
,
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities. Any offering of securities will be made only by means of a prospectus.
About Flowserve
Flowserve Corp. is one of the world's leading providers of fluid motion and control products and services. Operating in more than 55 countries, the company produces engineered and industrial pumps, seals and valves as well as a range of related flow management services. More information about Flowserve can be obtained by visiting the company's Web site at .
www.flowserve.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Words or phrases such as, "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts," "predicts" or other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which include, without limitation, statements regarding the consummation of the Notes offering and the use of proceeds from the offering.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT:
The forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on our current expectations, projections, estimates and assumptions. These statements are only predictions, not guarantees. Such forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from what is forecast in such forward-looking statements, and include, without limitation, the following: fluctuations in interest rates; disruption of credit and capital markets; a portion of our bookings may not lead to completed sales, and our ability to convert bookings into revenues at acceptable profit margins; changes in the global financial markets and the availability of capital and the potential for unexpected cancellations or delays of customer orders in our reported backlog; our dependence on our customers' ability to make required capital investment and maintenance expenditures; risks associated with cost overruns on fixed-fee projects and in taking customer orders for large complex custom engineered products; the substantial dependence of our sales on the success of the oil and gas, chemical, power generation and water management industries; the adverse impact of volatile raw materials prices on our products and operating margins; our ability to execute and realize the expected financial benefits from our strategic realignment initiatives; economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations, including military actions or trade embargoes that could affect customer markets, particularly Middle Eastern markets and global oil and gas producers, and non-compliance with U.S. export/re-export control, foreign corrupt practice laws, economic sanctions and import laws and regulations; our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including in hyperinflationary countries such as Venezuela; our furnishing of products and services to nuclear power plant facilities; potential adverse consequences resulting from litigation to which we are a party, such as litigation involving asbestos-containing material claims; a foreign government investigation regarding our participation in the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program; expectations regarding acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses; our relative geographical profitability and its impact on our utilization of deferred tax assets, including foreign tax credits; the potential adverse impact of an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets; our dependence upon third-party suppliers whose failure to perform timely could adversely affect our business operations; the highly competitive nature of the markets in which we operate; environmental compliance costs and liabilities; potential work stoppages and other labor matters; our inability to protect our intellectual property in the U.S., as well as in foreign countries; obligations under our defined benefit pension plans; and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 


