FILE:FLS/FLS-8K-20120618113850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Accelerated Share Repurchase
On June 14, 2012, Flowserve Corporation, a New York Corporation (the "Company") entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the "ASR Agreement") with J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as agent for JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch (the "Seller"), under which the Company will repurchase an aggregate of $300 million of its common stock, par value $1.25 per share ("Common Stock").
The ASR Agreement requires the Seller to deliver to the Company on June 15, 2012, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to 80 percent of the shares that would be repurchased at a price of $106.16, the closing price of the Common Stock on June 14, 2012. The final number of shares to be delivered to the Company by the Seller under the ASR Agreement at program maturity, net of the initial delivery, will be adjusted based on an agreed upon discount to the average of the daily volume weighted average price of the Common Stock during the term of the ASR Agreement. If the number of shares to be delivered to the Company at maturity is less than the initial delivery of shares by the Seller, the Company would be required to remit shares or cash, at the Company's option, to the Seller in an amount then equivalent to such shortfall.
The ASR Agreement is subject to terms believed to be customary for a transaction of this type, including, but not limited to, (i) the mechanism used to determine the number of shares that will be delivered, (ii) the required timing of delivery of the shares, (iii) the circumstances under which the Seller is permitted to make adjustments to the transaction terms, (iv) the circumstances under which the ASR Agreement may be terminated early, (v) the circumstances under which the Company could be required to deliver cash or shares (at the Company's option) to the Seller upon settlement of the transaction and (vi) various acknowledgements, representations and warranties made by the parties to one another.
The Company entered into the ASR Agreement as part of the Company's $1 billion share repurchase program that was authorized by its Board of Directors and previously announced on May 31, 2012. Excluding the ASR Agreement described above, the amount and timing of planned repurchases will be determined by the Company based on its evaluation of the Company's financial condition, business opportunities and market conditions at the time.
Bridge Loan
Effective June 15, 2012 (the "Closing Date"), the Company entered into a Loan Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other lenders party thereto (together, the "Lenders"), providing for a term loan with an aggregate commitment of $250 million for a term of 364 days (the "Bridge Loan").
The initial interest rates per annum applicable to the Bridge Loan will be either LIBOR plus 2.50%, 2.25%, 2.00% or 1.75%, as applicable, depending on the consolidated leverage ratio, or, at the option of the Company, the Base Rate (defined as a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such day plus 
 1
/
2
of 1% and (c) the Eurodollar Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) plus 1%). The applicable interest rate will increase by 50 basis points incrementally during the term of the Bridge Loan on each of the 90 day, 180 day and 270 day anniversaries of the Closing Date. Additionally, a duration fee will be payable on the loan amount as follows: 0.125% on the 120 day anniversary of the Closing Date; 0.25% on the 180 day anniversary of the Closing Date; and 0.5% on the 270 day anniversary of the Closing Date.
The Bridge Loan includes customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and events of default, including maintenance of interest coverage and consolidated leverage ratios, all of which are consistent in all material respects with the Company's existing credit facility.
The Company's obligations under the Bridge Loan are guaranteed by certain domestic subsidiaries of the Company. The guarantors have agreed that if any of the Company's obligations are not paid in full when due, the guarantors will, jointly, and severally, promptly pay the same, without any demand or notice whatsoever, and that in the case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any of the obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due.
The foregoing descriptions of the ASR Agreement and the Bridge Loan do not purport to be a complete statement of the parties' rights and obligations under the respective documents and the transactions contemplated therein, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the ASR Agreement and Bridge Loan, a copies of which are attached as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, respectively.
On June 14, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing its entry into the ASR Agreement and the execution of the Bridge Loan, a copy of which is included with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The disclosures required by this Item 2.03 are incorporated by reference to the disclosures relating to the Bridge Loan contained under Item 1.01 above.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
Flowserve Corporation
5215 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 2300
Irving, Texas 75039
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Transaction entered into between J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (""), as agent for and an affiliate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch (the ""), and Flowserve Corporation, a New York corporation (the ""), on the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
JPMS
Seller
Purchaser
Transaction
This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between the Seller and the Purchaser as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if the Seller and the Purchaser had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule except for the election of the laws of the State of New York as the governing law but without regard to its choice of law provisions), on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of the Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
Agreement
Section 1.01(a) As used in this Confirmation, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
. Definitions.
"" means, (A) for any Trading Day described in clause (x) of the definition of Trading Day hereunder, the volume-weighted average price at which the Common Stock trades as reported in the composite transactions for United States exchanges and quotation systems, during the regular trading session for the Exchange (or, if applicable, the Successor Exchange on which the Common Stock has been listed in accordance with Section 7.01(c)), on such Trading Day, excluding (i) trades that do not settle regular way, (ii) opening (regular way) reported trades in the consolidated system on such Trading Day, (iii) trades that occur in the last ten minutes before the scheduled close of trading on the Exchange on such Trading Day and ten minutes before the scheduled close of the primary trading in the market where the trade is effected, and (iv) trades on such Trading Day that do not satisfy the requirements of Rule 10b-18(b)(3), as determined in good faith by the Calculation Agent, or (B) for any Trading Day that is described in clause (y) of the definition of Trading Day hereunder, an amount determined in good faith by the Calculation Agent as 10b-18 VWAP. The Purchaser acknowledges that the Calculation Agent may refer to the Bloomberg Page "FLS US <Equity> AQR SEC" (or any successor thereto), in its judgment, for such Trading Day to determine the 10b-18 VWAP.
10b-18 VWAP
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01.
Additional Termination Event
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of the Agreement.
Affected Party
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of the Agreement.
Affected Transaction
"" means any "affiliated purchaser" (as such term is defined in Rule 10b-18) of the Purchaser.
Affiliated Purchaser
"" has the meaning set forth in the second paragraph of this Confirmation.
Agreement
"" means (i) in the case of a Termination Event (other than following consummation of a Merger Event or Nationalization) or Event of Default (as defined in the Agreement), one share of Common Stock and (ii) in the case of consummation of a Merger Event or Nationalization, a unit consisting of the number or amount of each type of property received by a holder of one share of Common Stock in such Merger Event or Nationalization; that if such Merger Event involves a choice of consideration to be received by holders of the Common Stock, an Alternative Termination Delivery Unit shall be deemed to include the amount of cash received by a holder who had elected to receive the maximum possible amount of cash as consideration for his shares.
Alternative Termination Delivery Unit
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.08.
Bankruptcy Code
"" means any day on which the Exchange is open for trading.
Business Day
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association.
Calculation Agent
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(f).
Cash Distribution
"" means, for any "" set forth in the Pricing Supplement, the amount specified in the Pricing Supplement for such Reference Period.
Cash Distribution Amount
Reference Period
"" means an amount in cash equal to (i) the absolute value of the Settlement Number (ii) the dollar volume weighted average price per share at which Seller or its designated affiliate executes purchases of shares of Common Stock during the Cash Settlement Purchase Period in respect of its hedge position for the Transaction.
Cash Settlement Amount
multiplied by
"" means the period during which the Seller purchases shares of Common Stock to unwind its hedge position following the Valuation Completion Date, which shall be determined in a commercially reasonable manner and which shall not exceed 30 Trading Days; provided that the Seller may extend the Cash Settlement Purchase Period as it shall determine in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner to be appropriate in light of legal or regulatory considerations.
Cash Settlement Purchase Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Common Stock
"" has the meaning set forth in Annex C hereto.
Communications Procedures
"" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this letter agreement.
Confirmation
"" means the period commencing on and including the Trade Date and ending on and including the date all payments or deliveries of shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 3.01 or Section 7.03 have been made.
Contract Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.02(a).
Default Notice Day
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(c).
De-Listing
"" means the amount specified as such in the Pricing Supplement.
Discount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(f).
Distribution Termination Event
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of the Agreement.
Early Termination Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of the Agreement.
Event of Default
"" means the New York Stock Exchange.
Exchange
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" means the 124th Trading Day following the Trade Date.
Expiration Date
"" means the per share cash dividend or distribution, or a portion thereof, declared by the Purchaser on shares of Common Stock that is classified by the board of directors of the Purchaser as an "extraordinary" dividend.
Extraordinary Cash Dividend
"" has the meaning specified as such in the Pricing Supplement.
Floor Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.02.
Indemnified Person
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.02.
Indemnifying Party
"" means the percentage specified as such in the Pricing Supplement.
Initial Delivery Percentage
"" means the number of shares of Common Stock, rounded down to the nearest integer, equal to the product of (i) the Initial Delivery Percentage and (ii) the Purchase Price the Initial Share Price.
Initial Number of Shares
divided by
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02.
Initial Settlement Date
"" means $106.16.
Initial Share Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(d).
Merger Event
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(e).
Nationalization
"" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.
New York Banking Day
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Number of Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.02.
Obligations
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.01(b).
Ordinary Cash Dividend
"" means the Pricing Supplement attached hereto as Annex D.
Pricing Supplement
"" has the meaning set forth in Annex A hereto.
Private Placement Agreement
"" means the private placement value of a share of Common Stock as determined in accordance with Annex A hereto.
Private Placement Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(b).
Private Placement Shares
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Annex A hereto.
Private Placement Procedures
"" has the meaning set forth in Annex A hereto.
Private Securities
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Purchase Price
"" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Confirmation.
Purchaser
"" means, for any date, (i) 9,000,000 shares of Common Stock, (ii) the net number of shares of Common Stock delivered by the Purchaser to the Seller in respect of this Transaction on or prior to such date, (iii) the net number of shares of Common Stock delivered by the Seller to the Purchaser in respect of this Transaction on or prior to such date, subject to appropriate adjustments pursuant to Section 8.02(x).
Purchaser Share Cap
minus
plus
"" means, for any corresponding "" specified in the Pricing Supplement, the period specified in the Pricing Supplement for such Cash Distribution Amount.
Reference Period
Cash Distribution Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(b).
Registered Shares
"" means the amount specified as such in the Pricing Supplement.
Registered Shares Fee
"" has the meaning set forth in Annex B hereto.
Registration Procedures
"" means Regulation M under the Exchange Act (or any successor rule thereto).
Regulation M
"" means Rule 10b-18 promulgated under the Exchange Act (or any successor rule thereto).
Rule 10b-18
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph hereto.
Seller
"" means, for any date, (i) 27,000,000 shares of Common Stock (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock delivered by the Seller to the Purchaser in respect of this Transaction on or prior to such date, subject to appropriate adjustments pursuant to Section 8.02(x).
Seller Share Cap
minus
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03.
Seller Termination Share Purchase Period
"" means (i) if Section 3.01(a)(i) is applicable, the fourth Business Day following the Valuation Completion Date; (ii) if settlement in cash is applicable pursuant to Section 3.01(d), the date of such cash payment determined in accordance with Section 3.01(d)(ii); (iii) if Section 3.01(e) is applicable, the Business Day immediately following the day on which the Seller informs the Purchaser, pursuant to Annex A hereto, of the number of Private Placement Shares required to be delivered; and (iv) if Section 3.01(f) is applicable, each of the dates so advised by the Seller pursuant to Annex B hereto.
Settlement Date
"" means a number of shares of Common Stock, rounded down to the nearest integer and which number may be negative, equal to (i) the Valuation Number (ii) the Initial Number of Shares.
Settlement Number
minus
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(b).
Settlement Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(c).
Share De-listing Event
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(c).
Successor Exchange
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.02(a).
Termination Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of the Agreement.
Termination Event
"" means the value of an Alternative Termination Delivery Unit to the Seller (determined as provided in Annex A hereto).
Termination Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(a).
Termination Settlement Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Trade Date
"" means (x) any day (i) other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which the Exchange is not open for business, (ii) during which trading of any securities of the Purchaser on any national securities exchange has not been suspended, (iii) during which there has not been, in the Seller's good faith reasonable judgment, a material limitation in the trading of Common Stock or any options contract or futures contract related to the Common Stock, and (iv) during which there has been no suspension pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Confirmation, or (y) any day that, notwithstanding the occurrence of events contemplated in clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this definition, the Seller determines in its good faith reasonable discretion to be a Trading Day.
Trading Day
"" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Confirmation.
Transaction
"" has the meaning set forth in the Pricing Supplement.
Valuation Completion Date
"" means (i) the Purchase Price (ii) the arithmetic average of the 10b-18 VWAPs for all of the Trading Days in the Valuation Period the Discount, as determined by the Calculation Agent in its sole judgment; that if the result of the calculation in clause (ii) is equal to or less than the Floor Price, then the Valuation Number shall be the Purchase Price the Floor Price.
Valuation Number
divided by
minus
provided
divided by
"" means the period of consecutive Trading Days commencing on and including the first Trading Day following the Trade Date and ending on and including the Valuation Completion Date.
Valuation Period
Section 2.01Subject to the terms and conditions of this Confirmation, the Purchaser agrees to purchase from the Seller, and the Seller agrees to sell to the Purchaser, on June 14, 2012 or on such other Business Day as the Purchaser and the Seller shall otherwise agree (the ""), a number of shares (the "") of the Purchaser's common stock, par value $1.25 per share (""), for a purchase price equal to $300,000,000 (the ""). The Number of Shares purchased by the Purchaser hereunder shall be determined in accordance with the terms of this Confirmation.
. Purchase of the Stock.
Trade Date
Number of Shares
Common Stock
Purchase Price
Section 2.02On the first Business Day immediately following the Trade Date (such day, the ""), the Seller shall deliver the Initial Number of Shares to the Purchaser, upon payment by the Purchaser of an amount equal to the Purchase Price to the Seller; that if the Seller is unable to borrow or otherwise acquire a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Initial Number of Shares for delivery to the Purchaser on the Initial Settlement Date, the Initial Number of Shares shall be reduced to such number of shares of Common Stock as the Seller is able to borrow or otherwise acquire and any amounts payable by the Purchaser pursuant to this Article 2 shall be reduced correspondingly. Such delivery and payment shall be effected in accordance with the Seller's customary procedures.
. Delivery and Payments.
Initial Settlement Date
provided
Section 2.03The Seller's obligation to deliver the Initial Number of Shares to the Purchaser on the Initial Settlement Date is subject to the condition that the representations and warranties made by the Purchaser in the Agreement shall be true and correct as of the date hereof and the Initial Settlement Date.
. Conditions to Seller's Obligations.
 
Section 3.01(a) (i) If the Settlement Number is greater than zero, the Seller shall deliver to the Purchaser a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Number on the Settlement Date in accordance with the Seller's customary procedures; and
. Subsequent Payments or Share Deliveries.
(ii) if the Settlement Number is less than zero, the Purchaser shall, at its option subject to the terms of this Confirmation, make a payment of cash or delivery of shares of Common Stock to the Seller in respect of the absolute value of the Settlement Number, as provided in this Section 3.01.
(b) Subject to Section 3.01(c), payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number by the Purchaser to the Seller shall be in cash or validly issued shares of Common Stock (""), and if in shares of Common Stock, then in shares to be sold in a private placement ("") or registered shares (""), as the Purchaser shall elect in its sole discretion subject to the terms of this Confirmation, which binding election shall be made by written notice to the Seller no later than the close of business on the second Business Day following the Valuation Completion Date; that by making an election to deliver Settlement Shares pursuant to this Section 3.01(b), the Purchaser shall be deemed to make the representations and warranties in Section 5.01 as if made on the date of the Purchaser's election; and that if the Purchaser fails to make such election by such date, the Purchaser shall be deemed to have elected settlement in cash.
Settlement Shares
Private Placement Shares
Registered Shares
provided
provided further
(c) (i) Any election by the Purchaser to deliver the absolute value of the Settlement Number in Settlement Shares pursuant to clause (b) of this Section 3.01 shall not be valid, and settlement in cash shall apply, if the representations and warranties made by the Purchaser to the Seller in Section 5.01 are not true and correct in all material respects as of the date the Purchaser makes such election.
(ii) Notwithstanding any election by the Purchaser to make payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number in Settlement Shares, at any time prior to the time the Seller (or any affiliate of the Seller) has contracted to resell all or any portion of such Settlement Shares, the Purchaser may elect to deliver in lieu of such Settlement Shares an amount in cash equal to the absolute value of the Settlement Number with respect to any Settlement Shares not yet contracted to be sold, in which case the provisions of Section 3.01(d) shall apply with respect to such amount; that any such election by the Purchaser pursuant to this clause (ii) shall not be valid and settlement in Settlement Shares shall continue to apply if the representations and warranties made by the Purchaser to the Seller in Section 5.01(a) are not true and correct in all material respects as of the date the Purchaser makes such election.
provided
(iii) If the Purchaser elects to make payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number (A) in Private Placement Shares and fails to comply with the requirements set forth in Section 3.01(e) or Annex A hereto or takes any action that would make unavailable either (1) the exemption set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act for the sale of any Private Placement Shares by the Purchaser to the Seller or (2) an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act reasonably acceptable to the Seller for resales of Private Placement Shares by the Seller, or (B) in Registered Shares and fails to comply with the requirements set forth in Section 3.01(f) or Annex B hereto; then in the case of either (A) or (B), the Purchaser shall deliver in lieu of any Private Placement Shares or Registered Shares an amount in cash equal to the absolute value of the Settlement Number with respect to any Settlement Shares not yet sold, in which case the provisions of Section 3.01(d) shall apply with respect to such amount.
(d) (i) If the Purchaser elects to pay the absolute value of the Settlement Number in cash, if settlement in cash is otherwise applicable in accordance with this Section 3.01, or if the Purchaser elects to make payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number in Private Placement Shares pursuant to Section 3.01(e), then the Calculation Agent shall determine an amount in cash equal to the Cash Settlement Amount.
(ii) If cash settlement is applicable, payment of the Cash Settlement Amount shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available U.S. dollar funds on the first Business Day immediately following the date of notification by the Seller to the Purchaser of the Cash Settlement Amount or such later Business Day as determined by the Seller in its sole discretion.
 
(e) If the Purchaser elects to make payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number in Private Placement Shares, then on the Settlement Date, the Purchaser shall deliver to the Seller a number of Settlement Shares equal to (A) the Cash Settlement Amount (B) the Private Placement Price (determined by the Calculation Agent in accordance with the Private Placement Procedures contained in Annex A hereto).
divided by
(f) If the Purchaser elects to make payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number in Registered Shares, then the Purchaser shall deliver to the Seller a number of Settlement Shares equal to (A) the absolute value of the Settlement Number (B) an additional number of Settlement Shares to take into account the Registered Shares Fee on the absolute value of the Settlement Number. Such Settlement Shares shall be delivered in such numbers and on such dates on or following the Valuation Completion Date as are specified by the Seller in accordance with the Registration Procedures contained in Annex B hereto.
plus
Section 3.02If the Purchaser elects to deliver Private Placement Shares pursuant to Section 3.01(b) or elects to deliver Alternative Termination Delivery Units pursuant to Section 7.02(a), the Private Placement Procedures contained in Annex A hereto shall apply, and if the Purchaser elects to deliver Registered Shares pursuant to Section 3.01(b), the Registration Procedures contained in Annex B hereto shall apply.
. Private Placement Procedures and Registration Procedures.
Section 3.03(a) If at any time, as a result of provisions limiting deliveries of shares of Common Stock to the Purchaser Share Cap, the Purchaser fails to deliver to the Seller any shares of Common Stock, the Purchaser shall, to the extent that the Purchaser has at such time authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock not reserved for other purposes, promptly notify the Seller thereof and deliver to the Seller a number of shares of Common Stock not previously delivered as a result of such provisions.
. Continuing Obligation to Deliver Shares.
(b) The Purchaser agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the number of authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock to be increased, if necessary, to an amount sufficient to permit the Purchaser to fulfill its obligations under this Section 3.03.
Section 4.01(a) The parties agree and acknowledge that:
. Transactions by the Seller.
(i) During the Valuation Period, the Seller (or its agent or affiliate) may effect transactions in shares of Common Stock in connection with this Confirmation. The timing of such transactions by the Seller, the price paid or received per share of Common Stock pursuant to such transactions and the manner in which such transactions are made, including without limitation whether such transactions are made on any securities exchange or privately, shall be within the sole judgment of the Seller.
(ii) During any Cash Settlement Purchase Period and any Seller Termination Share Purchase Period, the Seller (or its agent or affiliate) may purchase shares of Common Stock in connection with this Confirmation. The timing of such purchases by the Seller, the price paid per share of Common Stock pursuant to such purchases and the manner in which such purchases are made, including without limitation whether such purchases are made on any securities exchange or privately, shall be within the sole judgment of the Seller; that the Seller shall use good faith efforts to make all purchases of Common Stock in a manner that would comply with the limitations set forth in clauses (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4) and (c) of Rule 10b-18 (but without regard to clause (a)(13)(iv) of Rule 10b-18) as if such rule were applicable to such purchases.
provided
(iii) The Purchaser shall, at least one day prior to the first day of the Valuation Period, any Cash Settlement Purchase Period and any Seller Termination Share Purchase Period, notify the Seller of the total number of shares of Common Stock purchased in Rule 10b-18 purchases of blocks pursuant to the
 
once-a-week block exception set forth in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) by or for the Purchaser or any of its Affiliated Purchasers during each of the four calendar weeks preceding such day and during the calendar week in which such day occurs ("" and "" each being used as defined in Rule 10b-18), which notice shall be substantially in the form set forth as Exhibit A hereto.
Rule 10b-18 purchase
blocks
(b) The Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that (i) all transactions effected pursuant to Section 4.01 hereunder shall be made in the Seller's sole judgment and for the Seller's own account and (ii) the Purchaser does not have, and shall not attempt to exercise, any influence over how, when or whether to effect such transactions, including, without limitation, the price paid or received per share of Common Stock pursuant to such transactions whether such transactions are made on any securities exchange or privately. It is the intent of the Seller and the Purchaser that this Transaction comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Exchange Act and that this Confirmation shall be interpreted to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(B) and the Seller shall take no action that results in the Transaction not so complying with such requirements.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Confirmation, the Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that, on any day, the Seller shall not be obligated to deliver or receive any shares of Common Stock to or from the Purchaser and the Purchaser shall not be entitled to receive any shares of Common Stock from the Seller on such day, to the extent (but only to the extent) that after such transactions the Seller's ultimate parent entity would directly or indirectly beneficially own (as such term is defined for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) at any time on such day in excess of 8.0% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. Any purported receipt or delivery of shares of Common Stock shall be void and have no effect to the extent (but only to the extent) that after any receipt or delivery of such shares of Common Stock the Seller's ultimate parent entity would directly or indirectly so beneficially own in excess of 8.0% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. If, on any day, any delivery or receipt of shares of Common Stock by the Seller is not effected, in whole or in part, as a result of this provision, the Seller's and Purchaser's respective obligations to make or accept such receipt or delivery shall not be extinguished and such receipt or delivery shall be effected over time as promptly as the Seller determines, in the reasonable determination of the Seller, that after such receipt or delivery its ultimate parent entity would not directly or indirectly beneficially own in excess of 8.0% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.
Section 4.02(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4.01(a), if, based on the advice of counsel, the Seller reasonably determines that on any Trading Day, the Seller's trading activity in the Common Stock would not be advisable in respect of applicable securities laws, then the Seller may extend the Expiration Date, modify the Valuation Period or otherwise adjust the terms of the Transaction in its good faith reasonable discretion to ensure the Seller's compliance with such laws and to preserve the fair value of the Transaction to the Seller. The Seller shall notify the Purchaser of the exercise of the Seller's rights pursuant to this Section 4.02(a) upon such exercise.
. Adjustment of Transaction for Securities Laws.
(b) The Purchaser agrees that, during the Contract Period, neither the Purchaser nor any of its affiliates or agents shall make any distribution (as defined in Regulation M) of Common Stock or any security for which the Common Stock is a reference security (as defined in Regulation M), unless the Purchaser has provided to the Seller written notice of such distribution not later than 7:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first Trading Day of the "restricted period" (as defined in Regulation M) for such distribution; accordingly, the Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that the delivery of such written notice may cause any day on and including the date of such notice through and including the date on which the Purchaser provides to the Seller written notice of the conclusion of the relevant distribution (as defined in Regulation M) to not be a Trading Day and may give rise to an adjustment pursuant to Section 4.02(a). The Purchaser further acknowledges that the delivery of any written notice related to a distribution (as defined in Regulation M) must be in compliance with Section 5.01(a) of this Confirmation.
Section 4.03Without the prior written consent of the Seller, the Purchaser shall not, and shall cause its affiliates and affiliated purchasers (each as defined in Rule 10b-18) not to, directly or indirectly (including, without limitation, by means of a derivative instrument) purchase, offer to purchase, place any bid or limit order that would effect a purchase of, or commence any tender offer relating to, any shares of Common Stock (or equivalent interest, including a unit of beneficial interest in a trust or limited partnership or a depository share) or any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock during the Contract Period. However, the foregoing shall not limit (i) delivery of shares of Common Stock of affiliates or affiliated purchasers pursuant to the terms of convertible securities, warrants, options or other similar
. Purchases of Common Stock by the Purchaser.
 
securities outstanding as of the Trade Date, (ii) purchases which are not solicited by or on behalf of the Purchaser or its affiliates or affiliated purchasers, (iii) counterparty's ability (or the ability of any "agent independent of the issuer" (as defined in Rule 10b-18)), pursuant to any plan (as defined in Rule 10b-18) of the Purchaser, to re-acquire shares of Common Stock in connection with any equity transaction related to such plan or to limit the Purchaser's ability to withhold shares of Common Stock to cover tax liabilities associated with such equity transactions or otherwise restrict the Purchaser's ability to repurchase shares of Common Stock under privately negotiated or off-market transactions (including, without limitation, an agreement relating to employee benefit plans or transactions with any of the Purchaser's employees, officers, directors or affiliates), so long as any re-acquisition, withholding or repurchase does not constitute a "Rule 10b-18 purchase" (as defined in Rule 10b-18), and (iv) purchases pursuant to any odd-lot program conducted by the Purchaser or its affiliates or affiliated purchasers with regard to shares of Common Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Contract Period, the Purchaser may purchase shares of Common Stock through JPMS, in compliance with Rule 10b-18 or otherwise in a manner that the Seller and the Purchaser reasonably believe is in compliance with applicable requirements; that the number of shares of Common Stock so purchased by Purchaser on any Business Day during the Contract Period (as extended pursuant to the provisions hereof) shall not exceed 5% of the average daily trading volume reported for the shares of Common Stock during the four calendar weeks preceding the week in which such purchase is to be effected.
provided
Section 5.01The Purchaser represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Seller, as of the date hereof that:
. Repeated Representations, Warranties and Agreements of the Purchaser.
(a) The reports and other documents filed by the Purchaser with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act when considered as a whole (with the more recent such reports and documents deemed to amend inconsistent statements contained in any earlier such reports and documents), do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading. The Purchaser is not in possession of any material nonpublic information regarding the Purchaser or the Common Stock.
Disclosure; Compliance with Laws.
(b) The Purchaser acknowledges that (i) the Purchaser does not have, and shall not attempt to exercise, any influence over how, when or whether to effect purchases of Common Stock by the Seller (or its agent or affiliate) in connection with this Confirmation and (ii) the Purchaser is entering into the Agreement and this Confirmation in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade compliance with federal securities laws including, without limitation, Rule 10b-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act. The Purchaser also acknowledges and agrees that any amendment, modification, waiver or termination of this Confirmation must be effected in accordance with the requirements for the amendment or termination of a "plan" as defined in Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Exchange Act. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any such amendment, modification, waiver or termination shall be made in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act, and no amendment, modification or waiver shall be made at any time at which the Purchaser or any officer or director of the Purchaser is aware of any material nonpublic information regarding the Purchaser or the Common Stock.
Rule 10b5-1.
(c) Any shares of Common Stock or Alternative Termination Delivery Units delivered to the Seller pursuant to this Confirmation, when delivered, shall have been duly authorized and shall be duly and validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free of preemptive or similar rights, and such delivery shall pass title thereto free and clear of any liens or encumbrances.
Nature of Shares Delivered.
(d) The Purchaser is not entering into this Confirmation to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Common Stock (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock) or to manipulate the price of the Common Stock (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock) for the purpose of inducing the purchase of shares of Common Stock by others.
No Manipulation.
 
(e) The Purchaser is not engaged in a distribution, as such term is used in Regulation M, that would preclude purchases by the Purchaser or the Seller of the Common Stock or cause the Seller to violate any law, rule or regulation with respect to such purchases.
Regulation M.
(f) The Purchaser is entering into this Transaction in connection with its share repurchase program, which was approved by its board of directors and publicly disclosed, solely for the purposes stated in such board resolution and public disclosure. There is no internal policy of the Purchaser, whether written or oral, that would prohibit the Purchaser from entering into any aspect of this Transaction, including, but not limited to, the purchases of shares of Common Stock to be made pursuant hereto.
Board Authorization.
(g) The Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of New York. This Confirmation has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Purchaser and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Seller) constitutes a valid and legally binding obligation of the Purchaser, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles. The Purchaser has all corporate power to enter into this Confirmation and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to purchase the Common Stock and deliver any Settlement Shares in accordance with the terms hereof.
Due Authorization and Good Standing.
(h) There has not been any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f) under the Securities Act) of any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction involving a recapitalization relating to the Purchaser that would fall within the scope of Rule 10b-18(a)(13)(iv), where such announcement was within the Purchaser's control.
Certain Transactions.
Section 5.02The Purchaser represents and warrants to, and agrees with the Seller, as of the date hereof, that:
. Initial Representations, Warranties and Agreements of the Purchaser.
(a) . The assets of the Purchaser at their fair valuation exceed the liabilities of the Purchaser, including contingent liabilities; the capital of the Purchaser is adequate to conduct the business of the Purchaser and the Purchaser has the ability to pay its debts and obligations as such debts mature and does not intend to, or does not believe that it will, incur debt beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature.
Solvency
(b) The Purchaser has made, and will use its reasonable best efforts to make, all filings required, as determined by the Purchaser in its sole discretion with the advice of counsel, to be made by it with the SEC, any securities exchange or any other regulatory body in the United States with respect to the Transaction contemplated hereby.
Required Filings.
(c) The execution and delivery by the Purchaser of, and the performance by the Purchaser of its obligations under, this Confirmation and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated do not conflict with or violate (i) any provision of the certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other constitutive documents of the Purchaser, (ii) any statute or order, rule, regulation or judgment of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Purchaser or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective assets or (iii) any contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Purchaser or any of its subsidiaries or any of its assets.
No Conflict.
(d) . All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by the Purchaser with respect to performance, execution and delivery of this Confirmation have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with, except where such failure to obtain or non compliance would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Purchaser's or the Seller's ability to perform its obligations under the Transaction at any time during the Contract Period.
Consents
(e) The Purchaser is not and, after giving effect to the transactions contemplated in this Confirmation, will not be required to register as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act.
 
(f) The Purchaser is an "eligible contract participant", as such term is defined in Section 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended.
Commodity Exchange Act.
Section 5.03The Purchaser and the Seller represent and warrant to, and agree with, each other that:
. Additional Representations, Warranties and Agreements.
(a) . Each party agrees and acknowledges that (i) JPMS has acted solely as agent and not as principal with respect to this Transaction and (ii) JPMS has no obligation or liability, by way of guaranty, endorsement or otherwise, in any manner in respect of this Transaction (including, if applicable, in respect of the settlement thereof). Each party agrees it will look solely to the other party (or any guarantor in respect thereof) for performance of such other party's obligations under this Transaction. JPMS is authorized to act as agent for the Seller.
Agency
(b) Each party has entered into this Transaction solely in reliance on its own judgment. Neither party has any fiduciary obligation to the other party relating to this Transaction. In addition, neither party has held itself out as advising, or has held out any of its employees or agents as having the authority to advise, the other party as to whether or not the other party should enter into this Transaction, any subsequent actions relating to this Transaction or any other matters relating to this Transaction. Neither party shall have any responsibility or liability whatsoever in respect of any advice of this nature given, or views expressed, by it or any such persons to the other party relating to this Transaction, whether or not such advice is given or such views are expressed at the request of the other party. The Purchaser has conducted its own analysis of the legal, accounting, tax and other implications of this Transaction and consulted such advisors, accountants and counsel as it has deemed necessary.
Non-Reliance.
Section 5.04The Seller represents and warrants to the Purchaser that:
. Representations and Warranties of the Seller.
(a) This Confirmation has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Seller and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Purchaser) constitutes a valid and legally binding obligation of the Seller. The Seller has all corporate power to enter into this Confirmation and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to deliver the Common Stock in accordance with the terms hereof.
Due Authorization.
(b) The Seller will, at the Initial Settlement Date and on any other day on which it is required to deliver shares of Common Stock to the Purchaser hereunder, have the free and unqualified right to transfer the Number of Shares of Common Stock to be delivered by the Seller pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 3.01 hereof, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, charge, claim, equity or encumbrance of any kind.
Right to Transfer.
(c) The Seller is an "eligible contract participant", as such term is defined in Section 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended.
Commodity Exchange Act.
(d) The Seller has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure that transactions in shares of Common Stock in connection with this Confirmation would not violate the anti-manipulation provisions of the U.S. securities laws and the laws prohibiting trading on the basis of material nonpublic information.
Policies and Procedures.
Section 6.01Each party hereby agrees that it shall cooperate with the other party, and execute and deliver, or use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be executed and delivered, all such other instruments, and to obtain all consents, approvals or authorizations of any person, and take all such other actions as may reasonably be requested by the other party from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Confirmation, in order to effectuate the purposes of this Confirmation and the Transaction contemplated hereby.
. Further Assurances.
 
Section 6.02The Purchaser hereby agrees with the Seller that the Purchaser shall not, during the Contract Period, enter into or alter any corresponding or hedging transaction or position with respect to the Common Stock (including, without limitation, with respect to any securities convertible or exchangeable into the Common Stock) and agrees not to alter or deviate from the terms of this Confirmation.
. Purchaser's Hedging Transactions.
Section 6.03The Purchaser hereby agrees with the Seller that the Purchaser shall not communicate any information relating to the Common Stock or this Transaction (including any notices required by Section 6.05) to any employee of the Seller or JPMS other than as set forth in the Communications Procedures attached as Annex C hereto.
. No Communications.
Section 6.04(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Confirmation, the Purchaser shall not be required to deliver Settlement Shares, or shares of Common Stock or other securities comprising the aggregate Alternative Termination Delivery Units, in excess of the Purchaser Share Cap. The Purchaser shall not permit the sum of (i) the Purchaser Share Cap plus (ii) the aggregate number of shares expressly reserved for any such other uses, in each case whether expressed as caps or as numbers of shares reserved or otherwise, to exceed at any time the number of authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock.
. Maximum Deliverable Number of Shares of Common Stock.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Confirmation, the Seller shall not be required to deliver Settlement Shares, or shares of Common Stock or other securities comprising the aggregate Alternative Termination Delivery Units, in excess of the Seller Share Cap.
Section 6.05If at any time during the Contract Period, the Purchaser makes, or expects to be made, or has made, any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f) under the Securities Act) of any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction involving a recapitalization relating to the Purchaser (other than any such transaction in which the consideration consists solely of cash and there is no valuation period, or as to which the completion of such transaction or the completion of the vote by target shareholders has occurred), then the Purchaser shall (i) notify the Seller prior to the opening of trading in the Common Stock on any day on which the Purchaser makes, or expects to be made, or has made any such public announcement, (ii) notify the Seller promptly following any such announcement (or, if later, prior to the opening of trading in the Common Stock on the first day of any Seller Termination Share Purchase Period) that such announcement has been made and (iii) promptly deliver to the Seller following the making of any such announcement (or, if later, prior to the opening of trading in the Common Stock on the first day of any Seller Termination Share Purchase Period) a certificate indicating (A) the Purchaser's average daily Rule 10b-18 purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) during the three full calendar months preceding the date of such announcement and (B) the Purchaser's block purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) effected pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of Rule 10b-18 during the three full calendar months preceding the date of such announcement. In addition, the Purchaser shall promptly notify the Seller of the earlier to occur of the completion of such transaction and the completion of the vote by target shareholders. Accordingly, the Purchaser acknowledges that its actions in relation to any such announcement or transaction must comply with the standards set forth in Section 6.03.
. Notice of Certain Transactions.
Section 6.06For the avoidance of doubt, other than payment of the Purchase Price by the Purchaser, nothing in this Confirmation shall be interpreted as requiring the Purchaser to cash settle this Transaction, except in circumstances where cash settlement is within the Purchaser's control (including, without limitation, where the Purchaser elects to deliver or receive cash, where the Purchaser fails timely to elect to deliver Settlement Shares or to deliver or receive Alternative Termination Delivery Units, or where the Purchaser has made Private Placement settlement in accordance with Annex A unavailable due to the occurrence of events within its control ) or in those circumstances in which holders of the Common Stock would also receive cash.
. Delivery or Receipt of Cash.
Section 7.01(a) An Additional Termination Event shall occur in respect of which the Purchaser is the sole Affected Party and this Transaction is the sole Affected Transaction if, on any day, the Seller determines, in its sole good faith reasonable judgment, that it is unable to establish, re-establish or
. Additional Termination Events.
 
maintain any hedging transactions reasonably necessary in the normal course of such party's business to hedge the price and market risk of entering into and performing its obligations under this Transaction, due to market illiquidity, illegality or lack of availability of hedging transaction market participants.
(b) An Additional Termination Event shall occur in respect of which the Purchaser is the sole Affected Party and this Transaction is the sole Affected Transaction if (i) a Share De-listing Event occurs; (ii) a Merger Event occurs; (iii) a Nationalization occurs, (iv) a Distribution Termination Event occurs or (v) an event described in paragraph III of Annex C occurs.
(c) A "" means that at any time during the Contract Period, the Common Stock ceases to be listed, traded or publicly quoted on the Exchange for any reason (other than a Merger Event, a "") and is not immediately re-listed, traded or quoted as of the date of such de-listing, on another U.S. national securities exchange or a U.S. automated interdealer quotation system (a ""); that it shall not constitute an Additional Termination Event if the Common Stock is immediately re-listed on a Successor Exchange upon its De-Listing from the Exchange, and the Successor Exchange shall be deemed to be the Exchange for all purposes. In addition, in such event, the Seller shall make any commercially reasonable adjustments to the terms of the Transaction that the Seller determines appropriate in its good faith reasonable judgment to preserve the fair value of the Transaction to the Seller.
Share De-listing Event
De-Listing
Successor Exchange
provided
(d) A "" means the public announcement, including any public announcement as defined in Rule 165(f) of the Securities Act (by the Purchaser or otherwise, but with respect to (iv) by the Purchaser only) at any time during the Contract Period of any (i) planned recapitalization, reclassification or change of the Common Stock that will, if consummated, result in a transfer of more than 20% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, (ii) planned consolidation, amalgamation, merger or similar transaction of the Purchaser with or into another entity (other than a consolidation, amalgamation or merger in which the Purchaser will be the continuing entity and which does not result in any such recapitalization, reclassification or change of more than 20% of such shares outstanding), (iii) other takeover offer for the shares of Common Stock that is aimed at resulting in a transfer of more than 20% of such shares of Common Stock (other than such shares owned or controlled by the offeror), (iv) intention to solicit or enter into, or to explore strategic alternatives or other similar undertaking that may include any of the foregoing or (v) irrevocable commitment to any of the foregoing.
Merger Event
(e) A "" means that all or substantially all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock or assets of the Purchaser are nationalized, expropriated or are otherwise required to be transferred to any governmental agency, authority or entity.
Nationalization
(f) A "" means a declaration by the Purchaser of any cash dividend or distribution on shares of Common Stock, other than an Extraordinary Cash Dividend (a ""), that has a record date during the Contract Period, the amount of which, together with all prior declared Cash Distributions that have a record date during the same Reference Period of the Purchaser, exceeds the Cash Distribution Amount specified in the Pricing Supplement for such Reference Period, and in respect of which the Calculation Agent has not made an adjustment pursuant to Section 8.01(b).
Distribution Termination Event
Cash Distribution
Section 7.02(a) In the event of the occurrence or effective designation of an Early Termination Date under the Agreement, cash settlement, as set forth in Section 7.02(b), shall apply unless (i) the Purchaser elects (which election shall be binding), in lieu of payment or receipt, as applicable, of the amount payable in respect of this Transaction pursuant to Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement (the ""), to deliver or to receive Alternative Termination Delivery Units pursuant to Section 7.03, and (ii) notifies the Seller of such election by delivery of written notice to the Seller on the Business Day immediately following the Purchaser's receipt of a notice (as required by Section 6(d) of the Agreement following the designation of an Early Termination Date in respect of this Transaction) setting forth the amounts payable by the Purchaser or by the Seller with respect to such Early Termination Date (the date of such delivery, the ""); that the Purchaser shall not have the right to elect the delivery or receipt of the Alternative Termination Delivery Units pursuant to Section 7.03 if:
. Consequences of Additional Termination Events.
Termination Amount
Default Notice Day
provided
(i) the representations and warranties made by the Purchaser to the Seller in Section 5.01 are not true and correct in all material respects as of the date the Purchaser makes such election, as if made on such date, or
 
(ii) in the event that the Termination Amount is payable by the Purchaser to the Seller, (A) the Purchaser has taken any action that would make unavailable (x) the exemption set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, for the sale of any Alternative Termination Delivery Units by the Purchaser to the Seller or (y) an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act reasonably acceptable to the Seller for resales of Alternative Termination Delivery Units by the Seller, and (B) such Early Termination Date is in respect of an Event of Default which is within Purchaser's control (including, without limitation, failure to execute a Private Placement Agreement or otherwise comply with the requirements applicable to Purchaser set forth in Annex A hereto).
For the avoidance of doubt, upon the Purchaser's making an election to deliver Alternative Termination Delivery Units pursuant to this Section 7.02(a), the Purchaser shall be deemed to make the representations and warranties in Section 5.01 as if made on the date of the Purchaser's election (which representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects). Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to the time the Seller (or any affiliate of the Seller) has contracted to resell the property to be delivered upon alternative termination settlement, the Purchaser may deliver in lieu of such property an amount in cash equal to the Termination Amount in the manner set forth in Section 6(d) of the Agreement.
(b) If cash settlement applies in respect of an Early Termination Date, Section 6 of the Agreement shall apply.
Section 7.03(a) Subject to Section 7.02(a), if the Termination Amount shall be payable by the Purchaser to the Seller and the Purchaser elects to deliver the Alternative Termination Delivery Units to the Seller, the Purchaser shall, as soon as directed by the Seller after the Default Notice Day (such date, the ""), deliver to the Seller a number of Alternative Termination Delivery Units equal to the quotient of (A) the Termination Amount (B) the Termination Price.
. Alternative Termination Settlement.
Termination Settlement Date
divided by
(b) Subject to Section 7.02(a), if the Termination Amount shall be payable by the Seller to the Purchaser and the Purchaser elects to receive the Alternative Termination Delivery Units from the Seller, (i) the Seller shall, beginning on the first Trading Day following the Default Notice Day and ending when the Seller shall have satisfied its obligations under this clause (the ""), purchase (subject to the provisions of Section 4.01 and Section 4.02 hereof) a number of Alternative Termination Delivery Units equal to the quotient of (A) the Termination Amount (B) the Termination Price; and (ii) the Seller shall deliver such Alternative Termination Delivery Units to the Purchaser on the settlement dates relating to such purchases.
Seller Termination Share Purchase Period
divided by
Section 7.04If an Event of Default occurs in respect of the Purchaser, the Purchaser will, promptly upon becoming aware of it, notify the Seller specifying the nature of such Event of Default.
. Notice of Default.
Section 8.01(a) If the Purchaser declares any Extraordinary Cash Dividend that has a record date during the Contract Period, then prior to or on the date on which such Extraordinary Cash Dividend is paid by the Purchaser to holders of record, the Purchaser shall pay to the Seller an amount in cash equal to the product of (i) the amount of such Extraordinary Cash Dividend and (ii) the theoretical short delta number of shares as of the opening of business on the related ex-dividend date, as determined by the Calculation Agent, required for the Seller to hedge its exposure to the Transaction.
. Cash Dividends.
(b) If the Purchaser declares any cash dividend on shares of Common Stock that is not an Extraordinary Cash Dividend (an "") and that has a record date during the Contract
Ordinary Cash Dividend
 
Period, and the amount of such Ordinary Cash Dividend, together with all prior declared Ordinary Cash Dividends that have a record date during the same Reference Period, exceeds the Cash Distribution Amount specified in the Pricing Supplement for such Reference Period, the Calculation Agent may make corresponding adjustments with respect to the Floor Price as the Calculation Agent determines appropriate to preserve the fair value of the Transaction to the Seller, and shall determine the effective date of such adjustment.
Section 8.02If (x) any corporate event occurs having a dilutive or concentrative effect on the theoretical value of the Common Stock (other than any cash dividend but including, without limitation, a spin-off, a stock split, stock or other dividend or distribution, reorganization, rights offering or recapitalization), or (y) as a result of the definition of Trading Day (whether because of a suspension of transactions pursuant to Section 4.02 or otherwise), any day that would otherwise be a Trading Day during the Contract Period is not a Trading Day or on such Trading Day, pursuant to Section 4.02, the Seller effects transactions with respect to shares of Common Stock at a volume lower than originally anticipated with respect to this Transaction, or (z) as a result of market conditions, the Seller incurs additional costs in connection with maintaining its hedge position with respect to this Transaction resulting from the insufficient availability of stock lenders willing and able to lend shares of Common Stock with a borrow cost not significantly greater than the cost as of the date hereof and otherwise on terms consistent with those as of the date hereof, then in any such case, the Calculation Agent shall make corresponding adjustments with respect to any variable relevant to the terms of the Transaction, as the Calculation Agent determines appropriate to preserve the fair value of the Transaction to the Seller, and shall determine the effective date of such adjustment.
. Other Dilution Adjustments.
Section 9.01All covenants and agreements in this Confirmation made by or on behalf of either of the parties hereto shall bind and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of the parties hereto whether so expressed or not.
. Successors and Assigns.
Section 9.02The Purchaser (the "") agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Seller and its officers, directors, employees, affiliates, advisors, agents and controlling persons (each, an "") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities, joint or several (collectively, ""), to which an Indemnified Person may become subject arising out of or in connection with any breach of any representation, warranty or covenant of the Purchaser contained in this Confirmation or any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating directly thereto, regardless of whether any of such Indemnified Person is a party thereto, and to reimburse, within 30 days, upon written request, each such Indemnified Person for any reasonable legal or other expenses incurred in connection with investigating, preparation for, providing evidence for or defending any of the foregoing, provided, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall not have any liability to any Indemnified Person to the extent that such Obligations (i) are finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Person (and in such case, such Indemnified Person shall promptly return to the Indemnifying Party any amounts previously expended by the Indemnifying Party hereunder) or (ii) are trading losses incurred by the Seller as part of its purchases or sales of shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Confirmation (unless such trading losses are related directly to a breach of any agreement, term or covenant of the Purchaser contained herein).
. Purchaser Indemnification.
Indemnifying Party
Indemnified Person
Obligations
Section 9.03 The Seller acknowledges and agrees that this Confirmation is not intended to convey to it rights with respect to the Transaction that are senior to the claims of holders of Common Stock in the event of the Purchaser's bankruptcy.
. Equity Rights.
Section 9.04Notwithstanding the Agreement, the Seller may assign any of its rights or duties hereunder to any one or more of its affiliates without the prior written consent of the Purchaser. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Seller to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any shares of Common Stock or other securities to or from the Purchaser, Seller may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such shares of Common Stock or other securities and otherwise to perform the Seller's obligations in respect of this Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. The Seller may assign the right to receive Settlement Shares to any third party who may legally
. Assignment and Transfer.
 
receive Settlement Shares. The Seller shall be discharged of its obligations to the Purchaser only to the extent of any such performance that complies with this Confirmation. For the avoidance of doubt, Seller hereby acknowledges that notwithstanding any such designation hereunder, to the extent any of Seller's obligations in respect of this Transaction are not completed by its designee in compliance with the terms of this Confirmation, Seller shall be obligated to continue to perform or to cause any other of its designees to perform in respect of such obligations.
Section 9.05Whenever the Calculation Agent is required to act or to exercise judgment in any way with respect to this Transaction, it will do so in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner. Following any calculation, adjustment or calculation by the Calculation Agent hereunder, upon request by the Purchaser, the Calculation Agent will promptly (but in any event within three Trading Days) provide to the Purchaser by email to the email address provided by the Purchaser a report (in a commonly used file format for the storage and manipulation of financial data) setting forth in reasonable detail the basis for such calculation, adjustment or calculation, as the case may be.
. Calculation Agent.
Section 9.06The Seller and the Purchaser hereby acknowledge and agree that, subject to Section 6.03, each is authorized to disclose every aspect of this Confirmation and the transactions contemplated hereby to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, and there are no express or implied agreements, arrangements or understandings to the contrary.
. Non-confidentiality.
Section 9.07To the extent permitted by law, the unenforceability or invalidity of any provision or provisions of this Confirmation shall not render any other provision or provisions herein contained unenforceable or invalid.
. Unenforceability and Invalidity.
Section 9.08The parties hereto agree and acknowledge as of the date hereof that (i) the Seller is a "financial institution" within the meaning of Section 101(22) of Title 11 of the United States Code (the "") and (ii) this Confirmation is a "securities contract," as such term is defined in Section 741(7) of the Bankruptcy Code, entitled to the protection of Sections 362(b)(6) and 555 of the Bankruptcy Code.
. Securities Contract.
Bankruptcy Code
Section 9.09Notwithstanding any provision of the Agreement, or any other agreement between the parties, to the contrary, the obligations of the Purchaser hereunder are not secured by any collateral. Obligations under this Transaction shall not be netted, recouped or set off (including pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement) against any other obligations of the parties, whether arising under the Agreement, this Confirmation, under any other agreement between the parties hereto, by operation of law or otherwise, and no other obligations of the parties shall be netted, recouped or set off (including pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement) against obligations under this Transaction, whether arising under the Agreement, this Confirmation, under any other agreement between the parties hereto, by operation of law or otherwise, and each party hereby waives any such right of setoff, netting or recoupment.
. No Collateral, Netting or Setoff.
Section 9.10Unless otherwise specified herein, any notice, the delivery of which is expressly provided for in this Confirmation, may be made by telephone, to be confirmed in writing to the address below. Changes to the information below must be made in writing.
. Notices.
 
Flowserve Corporation
5215 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 2300
Irving, Texas 75039
Attention: Stuart Jones
Title: Assistant Treasurer
Telephone No: (469) 420-3259
Facsimile No: (469) 420-3359
E-mail: sajones@flowserve.com
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
c/o J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
EDG Marketing Support
Email: EDG_OTC_HEDGING_MS@jpmorgan.com
Fax: 1-866-886-4506
With a copy to:
Sudheer R. Tegulapalle
Executive Director
277 Park Avenue, 9th Floor
New York, NY 10172
Telephone No: 212-622-2100
Facsimile No: 212-622-0398
E-mail: sudheer.r.tegulapalle@jpmorgan.com
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing the copy of this Confirmation enclosed for that purpose and returning it to us.
 
Confirmed as of the date first
above written:
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
 
EXHIBITS
 
 
This LOAN AGREEMENT is entered into as of June 15, 2012 among FLOWSERVE CORPORATION, a New York corporation (the ""), the Guarantors (defined herein), the Lenders (defined herein) and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Borrower
The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a $250 million term loan facility for the purposes set forth herein, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
 
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
"" means that certain credit agreement, dated as of August 12, 2005, as amended, among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent.
2005 Credit Agreement
"", by any Person, means the acquisition by such Person, in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions, of either (a) all or any substantial portion of the property of, or a line of business or division of, another Person or (b) all of the Voting Stock of another Person, in each case whether or not involving a merger or consolidation with such other Person.
Acquisition
"" means JPMCB in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Company and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 11.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
Exhibit 11.06(b)(iv)
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means this Loan Agreement.
Agreement
"" means with respect to any Lender at any time, with respect to such Lender's portion of the outstanding Term Loan at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan held by such Lender at such time. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Schedule 2.01
"" means the following percentages per annum, based upon the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as set forth in the most recent Compliance Certificate received (or deemed received) by the Administrative Agent pursuant to :
Applicable Rate
Section 7.04(c)
 
; that each of the foregoing percentages shall increase by (x) 0.50% on the date that is ninety (90) days following the Closing Date, (y) an additional 0.50% on the date that is one hundred eighty (180) days following the Closing Date and (z) an additional 0.50% on the date that is two hundred seventy (270) days following the Closing Date. Any increase or decrease in the Applicable Rate resulting from a change in the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall become effective as of the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered (or deemed delivered) pursuant to ; , , that if a Compliance Certificate is not so delivered when due in accordance with such Section, then, upon the request of the Required Lenders, Pricing Tier 1 shall apply as of the first Business Day after the date on which such Compliance Certificate was required to have been so delivered and shall remain in effect until the date on which such Compliance Certificate is so delivered in accordance with , whereupon the Applicable Rate shall be adjusted based upon the calculation of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio contained in such Compliance Certificate. The Applicable Rate in effect from the Closing Date through the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is required to be delivered pursuant to for the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2012 shall be determined based upon Pricing Tier 3.
provided
Section 7.04(c)
provided
however
Section 7.04(c)
Section 7.04(c)
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means the sale, transfer or other disposition of any property by the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries other than (a) sales of inventory in the ordinary course of business, (b) dispositions of damaged, obsolete or worn-out assets, scrap that are disposed of in the ordinary course of business, (c) the sale of Program Receivables pursuant to the Receivables Program, (d) dispositions between or among Loan Parties, (e) dispositions from Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties to Loan Parties, (f) dispositions between or among Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties, (g) dispositions from Loan Parties to Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties of assets having an aggregate value not in excess of $25,000,000 from and after the Closing Date, (h) Dispositions of delinquent accounts receivable in connection with the collection or compromise thereof, (i) the sale or disposition of Permitted Investments for fair market value, (j) to the extent constituting dispositions of property, Investments permitted by , (k) dispositions by a Loan Party of the Equity Interests of a direct Foreign Subsidiary of such Loan Party to a direct or indirect wholly-owned Foreign Subsidiary of the Borrower (the "transferee"), and (l) other sales,
Asset Sale
Section 8.04
 
transfers or other dispositions in any fiscal year of the Borrower of assets having an aggregate value not in excess of $10,000,000. For purposes of clarification, Restricted Payments and Asset Swaps shall not be treated as Asset Sales for purposes of this Agreement.
"" means any transfer of assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to any Person other than the Borrower or any Affiliate of the Borrower in exchange for assets of such Person if such exchange would qualify, whether in part or in full, as a like-kind exchange pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. Nothing in this definition shall require the Borrower or any Subsidiary to elect that Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code be applicable to any Asset Swap.
Asset Swap
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 11.06(b)
Exhibit 11.06(b)
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such day plus 
Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1% and (c) the Eurodollar Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) plus 1%, that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Eurodollar Rate for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or on any successor or substitute page of such page) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day. Any change in the Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Rate or the Eurodollar Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Rate or the Eurodollar Rate, respectively.
provided
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 7.04
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Borrowing
Section 2.01
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; provided that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in Dollars in the London interbank market.
Business Day
"" means the Letter of Credit Facility Agreement dated October 30, 2009, as amended, among the Borrower and certain of its Subsidiaries, and Calyon (a/k/a Credit Agicole).
Calyon LOC Agreement
"" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
 
"" means Flowcom Insurance Company, Inc., a Hawaii corporation.
Captive Insurance Company
"" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. Sect. 9601 et seq).
CERCLA
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement (or with respect to any Lender, if later, the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender), of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority, or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rules, guideline, requirement or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority; , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives thereunder, issued in connection therewith or in implementation thereof, and (ii) all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law" regardless of the date enacted, adopted, issued or implemented.
Change in Law
provided
however
"" means an event or series of events by which: (a) any person or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as in effect on the Closing Date) shall own directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, shares representing more than 35% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Borrower; (b) a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Borrower shall at any time be occupied by persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Borrower, nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated; or (c) any change in control (or similar event, however denominated) with respect to the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall occur under and as defined in any indenture or agreement in respect of Material Indebtedness to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party.
Change of Control
"" means the date on which the conditions precedent set forth in Section 5.01 shall have been satisfied, which date is June 15, 2012.
Closing Date
"" means, as to each Lender, the Term Loan Commitment of such Lender.
Commitment
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit 7.04
"" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period, (a) without duplication and to the extent deducted in determining such Consolidated Net Income, the sum of (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) consolidated income tax expense for such period, (iii) all amounts attributable to depreciation and amortization for such period, (iv) any extraordinary losses or extraordinary non-cash charges for such period, (v) the amount of premium payments paid by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, and charges in respect of unamortized fees and expenses, in each case associated with the repayment of Indebtedness, (vi) charges in respect of unamortized fees and expenses associated with the prepayment of loans and termination of commitments under the 2005 Credit Agreement, (vii) the amount of post-retirement health benefits accrued in such period the amount of post-retirement health benefits paid in such period, in an amount of up to $5,000,000, (viii) the first $20,000,000 of non-recurring cash charges for severance payments and plant closings incurred or taken on or after December 14, 2010 and through the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, and (ix) expenses relating to stock-based compensation plans resulting from the application of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123R and (b) without duplication and to the extent included in determining such Consolidated Net Income, any extraordinary gains for such period, all determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
less
minus
 
"" means, total consolidated Indebtedness of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries at such time (excluding (a) Guarantees under , and (b) Indebtedness of the type described in clause (i) of the definition of "Indebtedness" and under , except in each case to the extent of any unreimbursed drawings or payments thereunder).
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
Section 8.04(o)
Section 8.01(h)
"" means, for any period, interest expense for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, plus, without duplication, all fees, discounts, premiums, expenses or similar amounts incurred by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the Receivables Program for such period, including purchase discounts (net of any loss reserves), purchase premiums, operating expense fees, structuring fees, collection agent fees, unutilized purchase limit fees and other similar fees and expenses.
Consolidated Interest Charges
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently completed four fiscal quarters to (b) Consolidated Interest Charges for the most recently completed four fiscal quarters; , , if as of any date the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio is being determined, the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall have completed a Permitted Acquisition or an Asset Sale during the relevant four fiscal quarter period, Consolidated EBITDA shall be computed (for purposes of such determination) on a Pro Forma Basis as if such transaction(s) and any related incurrence of Indebtedness, had occurred at the beginning of such period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
provided
however
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently completed four fiscal quarters; , , if as of any date the Consolidated Leverage Ratio is being determined, the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall have completed a Permitted Acquisition or an Asset Sale during the relevant four fiscal quarter period, Consolidated EBITDA shall be computed (for purposes of such determination) on a Pro Forma Basis as if such transaction(s) and any related incurrence of Indebtedness, had occurred at the beginning of such period.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
provided
however
"" means, for any period, the net income or loss of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; that there shall be excluded (a) the income of any Subsidiary to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by the Subsidiary of that income is not at the time permitted by operation of the terms of its Organization Documents or any agreement, instrument, judgment, decree, statute, rule or regulation applicable to such Subsidiary, (b) the income or loss of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Subsidiary or is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or the date that such Person's assets are acquired by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and (c) after tax gains and losses attributable to sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business.
Consolidated Net Income
provided
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, and the terms "" and "" shall have meanings correlative there. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a Person shall be deemed to be Controlled by another Person if such other Person possesses, directly or indirectly, power to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors, managing general partners or the equivalent.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
Controlling
Controlled
"" means a Borrowing.
Credit Extension
 
"" , as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt.
Debt Rating
means
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
"" means, any Lender that, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
Defaulting Lender
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any state of the United States or the District of Columbia.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under and  (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Sections 11.06(b)(iii)
(v)
Section 11.06(b)(iii)
"" means all applicable federal, state, local and foreign Laws (including common law), treaties, regulations, rules, ordinances, codes, decrees, judgments and orders (including consent orders), in each case, relating to protection of the environment, natural resources, or public health as related to hazardous substances (as that term is defined in CERCLA) or petroleum products or the presence, Release of, or exposure to, such hazardous substances or petroleum products, or the generation, manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, transport, recycling or handling of, or the arrangement for such activities with respect to, hazardous substances or petroleum products.
Environmental Laws
"" means liabilities, obligations, claims, actions, suits, judgments or orders under or relating to any Environmental Law for any damages, injunctive relief, losses, fines, penalties, fees, expenses (including fees and expenses of attorneys and consultants) or costs, including those arising from or relating to: (a) any action to address the on- or off-site presence, Release of, or exposure to, Hazardous Materials; (b) permitting and licensing, administrative oversight, insurance premiums and financial assurance requirements; (c) any personal injury (including death), property damage (real or personal) or natural resource damage; and (d) the compliance or non-compliance with any Environmental Law.
Environmental Liability
"" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests
Equity Interests
 
in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination.
"" means notes payable or similar instruments issued by a Foreign Subsidiary to its parent to evidence a distribution of retained earnings or return of capital to such parent or a reclassification of an earlier equity Investment by such parent in such Foreign Subsidiary, in each case entered into for repatriation planning purposes and not issued or created in connection with a substantially concurrent Investment by the parent to such Foreign Subsidiary.
Equity Notes Payable
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Internal Revenue Code, or solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event," as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder, with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the determination that any Plan is considered an at-risk plan within the meaning of Section 430 of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 303 of ERISA; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(c) of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 302(c) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the imposition on the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of, or withdrawal from, any Plan or the withdrawal or partial withdrawal of the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from any Multiemployer Plan; (e) the receipt by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to the intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the receipt by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any notice from any Multiemployer Plan concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA that results in any additional contributions by or the imposition of any excise taxes on the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates; (g) the occurrence of a "prohibited transaction" (within the meaning of Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code) with respect to which the Borrower or any such Subsidiary incurs liability; or (h) any Foreign Benefit Event.
ERISA Event
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or on any successor or substitute page of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in Dollars in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two (2) Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in Dollars with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurodollar Rate Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which deposits in Dollars in an amount equal to $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two (2) Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Base Rate
LIBO Rate
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Loan for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum equal to (a) the Eurodollar Base Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Eurodollar Rate
"" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
 
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the FRB to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the FRB). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D of the FRB. Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D of the FRB or any comparable regulation. The Eurodollar Reserve Percentage shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 9.01
"" means, so long as the Equity Interests of such Subsidiaries are not subject to any Lien securing Indebtedness, the following: (a) Flowcom Insurance Company, Inc., a Hawaii corporation, (b) Subsidiaries organized under the Laws of Saudi Arabia, (c) Flowserve Netherlands C.V. and (d) any Subsidiary that (i) has not conducted any business during the twelve-month period preceding the date of determination and (ii) has less than $50,000 in assets (which Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date are listed on ).
Excluded Subsidiaries
Schedule 1.01
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the Laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located (c) any backup withholding tax that is required by the Internal Revenue Code to be withheld from amounts payable to a Lender that has failed to comply with clause (A) of , (d) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any United States withholding tax that (i) is required to be imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender pursuant to the Laws in force at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with clause (B) of , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to or  and () any United States withholding Taxes imposed under FATCA.
Excluded Taxes
Section 3.01(e)(ii)
Section 11.13
Section 3.01(e)(ii)
Section 3.01(a)(ii)
(c)
e
"" means that certain credit agreement, dated as of December 14, 2010, as amended, among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" means the "Obligations" as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement.
Existing Credit Agreement Obligations
"" means the Accounting Standards Codification of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FASB ASC
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with), and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by
Federal Funds Rate
 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
"" means the letter agreement, dated June 15, 2012 among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and JPMS.
Fee Letter
"" of any Person means the principal financial officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, financial vice president, treasurer or controller of such Person.
Financial Officer
"" means any bankruptcy-remote, wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower, organized and existing solely for the purpose of engaging in the Receivables Program.
Finsub
"" means, with respect to any Foreign Pension Plan, (a) the existence of unfunded liabilities in excess of the amount permitted under any applicable Law, or in excess of the amount that would be permitted absent a waiver from a Governmental Authority, (b) the failure to make the required contributions or payments, under any applicable Law, on or before the due date for such contributions or payments, (c) the receipt of a notice by a Governmental Authority relating to the intention to terminate any such Foreign Pension Plan or to appoint a trustee or similar official to administer any such Foreign Pension Plan, or alleging the insolvency of any such Foreign Pension Plan, in any such case that results in the incurrence of any liability by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or the imposition on the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of any fine, excise tax or penalty in each case in excess of $10,000,000 (or the Dollar equivalent thereof in another currency) and (d) the incurrence of any liability in excess of $10,000,000 (or the Dollar equivalent thereof in another currency) by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries under applicable Law on account of the complete or partial termination of such Foreign Pension Plan or the complete or partial withdrawal of any participating employer therein, or (e) the occurrence of any transaction that is prohibited under any applicable Law that results in the incurrence of any liability by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or the imposition on the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of any fine, excise tax or penalty resulting from any noncompliance with any applicable Law, in each case in excess of $10,000,000 (or the Dollar equivalent thereof in another currency).
Foreign Benefit Event
"" means any Lender that is organized under the Laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means any benefit plan which under applicable foreign Law is required to be funded through a trust or other funding vehicle other than a trust or funding vehicle maintained exclusively by a Governmental Authority.
Foreign Pension Plan
"" means any Subsidiary that is not a Domestic Subsidiary.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
"" means, subject to , generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, consistently applied and as in effect from time to time.
GAAP
Section 1.03
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
 
"" of or by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment of such Indebtedness or other obligation or (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation; , , , that the term "Guarantee" shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
primary obligor
but
provided
however
"" means each Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower identified as a "Guarantor" on the signature pages hereto and each other Person that joins as a Guarantor pursuant to or otherwise, together with their successors and permitted assigns.
Guarantors
Section 7.10
"" means the Guaranty made by the Guarantors in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to .
Guaranty
Article IV
"" mean (a) any petroleum products or byproducts and all other hydrocarbons, coal ash, asbestos in friable form, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, polychlorinated biphenyls, chlorofluorocarbons and all other ozone-depleting substances, in each case regulated by any Environmental Law, and (b) any chemical, material, substance or waste that is prohibited, limited or regulated by or pursuant to any Environmental Law due to its effect or potential effect on public health and the environment.
Hazardous Materials
"" means (a) any Subsidiary that (i) has not conducted any business during the twelve-month period preceding the date of determination and (ii) has less than $50,000 in assets and (b) any Foreign Subsidiary whose (i) assets (together with the assets of its Subsidiaries represent less than 2% of consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and (ii) revenue (together with the revenue of its Subsidiaries represent less than 2% of consolidated revenue of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Immaterial Subsidiary
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property or assets purchased by such Person, (e) all obligations of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding trade accounts payable and accrued obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (g) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of third parties, (h) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (i) all obligations of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit, (j) all obligations of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances, and (k) all Receivables Program Indebtedness of such Person. The Indebtedness of any Person shall (i) include the Indebtedness of any partnership in which such Person is a general partner, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Indebtedness is not recourse to such Person and (ii) shall exclude Equity Notes Payable.
Indebtedness
 
"" means Taxes, other than Excluded Taxes and Other Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by or on account of any obligation of any Loan Party under any Loan Document.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 11.04(b)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 11.07
"" means (a) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date of such Loan and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter (or, subject to availability of all Lenders, two weeks, nine months or twelve months thereafter), as the Borrower may elect; , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day, (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Rate Loan that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Loan initially shall be the date on which such Loan is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Loan and (iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
Interest Period
provided
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Internal Revenue Code
"" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of Equity Interests of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, or (c) an Acquisition. For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases, write-downs or write-offs in the value of such Investment; (i) Investments which are capital contributions or acquisitions of Equity Interests shall be valued at the amount actually contributed or paid to acquire such Equity Interests as of the date of such contribution or payment all cash distributions and returns of capital from the date such Investment is made through and including the date of calculation and (ii) Investments which are loans, advances, extensions of credit or Guarantees shall be valued at the principal amount of such loan, advance or extension of credit outstanding as of the date of determination or, as applicable, the principal amount of the loan or advance outstanding as of the date of determination actually Guaranteed.
Investment
however
less
"" means the Borrower's Debt Ratings are (i) BBB- or higher by S&P and (ii) Baa3 or higher by Moody's (in each case with an outlook of stable or better). The Borrower shall be deemed to have obtained Investment Grade Ratings if it shall deliver to the Administrative Agent letters from S&P and Moody's to the effect that the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt would receive the necessary rating assuming that the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the holders of the Obligations, had released its Liens in the Collateral (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement).
Investment Grade Ratings
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
 
"" means a joinder agreement substantially in the form of executed and delivered by a Domestic Subsidiary in accordance with the provisions of .
Joinder Agreement
Exhibit 7.10
Section 7.10
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its successors.
JPMCB
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and its successors, in its capacity as joint lead arranger and joint book manager.
JPMS
"" shall mean Korea Seal Master Company Ltd.
KSM
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the legally binding interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority having the force of law.
Laws
"" means each of the Persons identified as a "Lender" on the signature pages hereto, each other Person that becomes a "Lender" in accordance with this Agreement and their successors and assigns.
Lenders
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices, branch or Affiliate of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, encumbrance, charge or security interest in or on such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
Lien
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under in the form of the Term Loan.
Loan
Article II
"" means this Agreement, each Note, each Joinder Agreement and the Fee Letter.
Loan Documents
"" means a notice of (a) a Borrowing of the Term Loan, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, in each case pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit 2.02
"" means, collectively, the Borrower and each Guarantor.
Loan Parties
"" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties, liabilities (actual or contingent) or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of any Loan Party to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
Material Adverse Effect
"" shall mean Indebtedness (other than the Obligations), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Contracts, of any one or more of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Swap Contract at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Borrower or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Swap Contract were terminated at such time.
Material Indebtedness
 
"" means the date that occurs 364 days after the date of this Agreement; , , that, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
provided
however
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means unsecured Indebtedness issued by a Loan Party having the following characteristics: (i) such Indebtedness shall not contain any provision prohibiting the creation or assumption of any Lien on any of the properties or assets of the Loan Parties, whether then owned or thereafter acquired, or prohibiting guaranties by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, in either case, to secure or guarantee payment of the Obligations or any agreement renewing, refinancing or extending the Obligations or this Agreement, (ii) no Default shall exist immediately prior to and after giving effect to the incurrence of such Indebtedness, (iii) the Borrower shall be in compliance with on a Pro Forma Basis after giving effect to the incurrence of such Indebtedness, and (iv) such Indebtedness shall be on terms and conditions reasonably determined by Administrative Agent to be consistent with prevailing market terms and shall be issued pursuant to documentation reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
New Unsecured Debt
Section 8.11
"" has the meaning specified in .
Note
Section 2.11
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding. The foregoing shall also include (a) all obligations under any Swap Contract between any Loan Party or any Subsidiary and any Lender or Affiliate of a Lender and (b) all obligations under any Treasury Management Agreement between any Loan Party or any Subsidiary and any Lender or Affiliate of a Lender.
Obligations
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" means, with respect to any Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of any Loans occurring on such date.
Outstanding Amount
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 11.06(d)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant Register
Section 11.06(d)
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any successor thereto.
PBGC
 
"" means an Acquisition by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that (i) in the case of an Acquisition of the Equity Interests of another Person, such Acquisition was not preceded by an unsolicited tender offer for such Equity Interests by, or proxy contest initiated by, the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) the property acquired (or the property of the Person acquired) in such Acquisition is used or useful in a line of business permitted by and shall have had positive Consolidated EBITDA over the twelve month period preceding such Acquisition; (iii) at the time of such transaction (A) both before and after giving effect thereto, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (B) the Borrower would be in compliance with the covenants set forth in and the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall not exceed 3.00 to 1.0, in each case calculated on a Pro Forma Basis; and (iv) after giving effect to such Acquisition, there must be at least $100,000,000 of unused and available Revolving Commitments (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement).
Permitted Acquisition
provided
Section 8.08
Section 8.11
"" shall mean: (a) direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States (or by any agency thereof to the extent such obligations are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States), in each case maturing within one year from the date of acquisition thereof; (b) investments in commercial paper maturing within 270 days from the date of acquisition thereof and having, at such date of acquisition, one of the three highest credit ratings obtainable from S&P or from Moody's; (c) investments in certificates of deposit, banker's acceptances and time deposits maturing within one year from the date of acquisition thereof issued or guaranteed by or placed with, and money market deposit accounts issued or offered by, any domestic office of any commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof that has a combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $500,000,000; (d) fully collateralized repurchase agreements with a term of not more than 30 days for securities described in clause (a) above and entered into with a financial institution satisfying the criteria of clause (c) above; (e) investments in "money market funds" within the meaning of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, substantially all of whose assets are invested in investments of the type described in clauses (a) through (d) above; and (f) other short-term investments utilized by Foreign Subsidiaries in accordance with normal investment practices for cash management in investments of a type analogous to the foregoing.
Permitted Investments
"" means, at any time, Liens in respect of property of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary permitted to exist at such time pursuant to the terms of .
Permitted Liens
Section 8.02
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 7.04
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMCB as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
"" means, with respect to any Acquisition, incurrence of Indebtedness, Restricted Payment or Asset Sale (as the context requires), that for purposes of calculating the financial covenants set forth in , such transaction (and all other such Acquisitions, incurrences of Indebtedness, Restricted Payments and Asset Sales consummated during the applicable period) shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first day of the most recently completed period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending prior to such transaction for which the financial statements and certificates required by or have been delivered or for which comparable financial statements have been filed with the SEC. All calculations referred to in this definition shall (i) with respect to any Acquisition
Pro Forma Basis
Section 8.11
Section 7.04(a)
7.04(b)
 
or Asset Sale, include only those adjustments that would be permitted or required by Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933, are reviewed by the Borrower's independent certified public accountants and are based on reasonably detailed written assumptions reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and (ii) be certified to by a Financial Officer as having been prepared in good faith based upon reasonable assumptions.
"" shall mean all trade receivables and related contract rights originated and owned by the Borrower or any Subsidiary and sold pursuant to the Receivables Program.
Program Receivables
"" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 7.04
"" shall mean the Program Receivables facility established pursuant to the Receivables Program Documentation.
Receivables Program
"" means any facility or arrangement involving (a) the sale of, or transfer of interests in, Program Receivables to Finsub in a "true sale" transaction and (b) the financing by Finsub of such Program Receivables, either through the sale of, or transfer of interests in, such Program Receivables to Persons that are not Affiliates of the Borrower, the incurrence of Indebtedness by Finsub or otherwise; that the terms and conditions of such other facility or arrangement (including those providing for recourse to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries other than Finsub) shall be subject to the prior written approval of the Administrative Agent (not to be unreasonably withheld).
Receivables Program Documentation
provided
"" means all consideration or other amounts received by Finsub from the purchaser or financier of Program Receivables under the Receivables Program less any amounts collected with respect to the Program Receivables sold or transferred to or financed by such purchaser or financier, regardless of whether such amount is required to be reflected as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP (it being the intent of the parties that the amount of Receivables Program Indebtedness at any time outstanding approximates as closely as possible the principal amount of Indebtedness that would be outstanding at such time under the Receivables Program if the same were structured as a secured lending agreement).
Receivables Program Indebtedness
"" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 11.06(c)
"" means any release, spill, emission, leaking, dumping, injection, pouring, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching or migration into or through the environment.
Release
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means, with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Loans, a Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
"" means, at any time, Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the outstanding Loans; that, so long as there is more than one (1) Lender under this Agreement, "" means at least two (2) Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the outstanding Loans.
Required Lenders
provided
Required Lenders
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of a Loan Party, solely for purposes of the delivery of incumbency certificates pursuant to , the secretary or any assistant secretary of a Loan Party and, solely for purposes of notices given pursuant to , any other officer of the applicable Loan Party so designated by any of the foregoing officers in a notice to the Administrative Agent. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
Section 5.01
Article II
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, (a) any dividend or other distribution (by reduction of capital or otherwise), whether in cash, property, securities or a combination thereof, in respect of the Equity Interests of issued by such Person, (b) any redemption, purchase, retirement or other acquisition for value of any Equity Interests issued by such Person or (c) the setting aside of any amount for any such purpose described in clauses (a) and (b).
Restricted Payment
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of Voting Stock is at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings (including backup withholding), assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in .
Term Loan
Section 2.01
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to make its portion of the Term Loan to the Borrower pursuant to , in the principal amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on . The aggregate principal amount of the Term Loan Commitments of all of the Lenders as in effect on the Closing Date is $250,000,000.
Term Loan Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" means any agreement governing the provision of treasury or cash management services, including deposit accounts, overnight draft, credit or debit cards, funds transfer, automated clearinghouse, zero balance accounts, returned check concentration, controlled disbursement, lockbox, account reconciliation and reporting and trade finance services and other cash management services.
Treasury Management Agreement
"" means, with respect to any Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, Equity Interests issued by such Person the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even though the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
"" shall mean liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
 
With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
(a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "." Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "," "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
include
includes
including
will
shall
hereto
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
(b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
(c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
 
(a) . Except as otherwise specifically prescribed herein, all accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining compliance with any covenant (including the computation of any financial covenant) contained herein, Indebtedness of the Loan Parties and their Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be carried at 100% of the outstanding principal amount thereof, and the effects of FASB ASC 825 and FASB ASC 470-20 on financial liabilities shall be disregarded.
Generally
 
(b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
(c) . For purposes of calculations made pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, GAAP will be deemed to treat operating leases in a manner consistent with their current treatment under generally accepted accounting principles as in effect on the Closing Date, notwithstanding any modifications or interpretive changes thereto that may occur thereafter.
Operating Lease Treatment
 
Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
 
Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
 
. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make its portion of a term loan (the "") to the Borrower in Dollars on the Closing Date in an amount not to exceed such Lender's Term Loan Commitment. Amounts repaid or prepaid on the Term Loan may not be reborrowed. The Term Loan may consist of Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
Term Loan
Term Loan
 
(a) The Borrowing, each conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of, Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a
Section 2.02(a)
 
Responsible Officer of the Borrower. The Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. The Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof. Each Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Borrowing, a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of a Loan in a Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month. The initial Borrowing hereunder shall be a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans unless the Borrower has delivered to the Administrative Agent, at least three (3) Business Days prior to the date of the proposed initial Borrowing, a funding indemnity letter reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(b) Following receipt of a Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans as described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 2:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in and , the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of JPMCB with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower.
Section 5.02
Section 5.01
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of the Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders, and the Required Lenders may demand that any or all of the then outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loans be converted immediately to Base Rate Loans.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in the Prime Rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e) After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to the Loans.
 
 
 
The Borrower may, upon notice from the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay the Term Loan in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (A) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (1) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (2) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (B) any such prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding); and (C) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding). Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
provided
Section 3.05
 
 
The Borrower shall repay the outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan on the Maturity Date, unless accelerated sooner pursuant to .
Section 9.02
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; and (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
plus
plus
(b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
 
(iii) Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iv) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
 
(a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, the following non-refundable duration fees: (i) on the first Business Day after the date that occurs 120 days after the Closing Date, a fee equal to 0.125% of such Lender's Term Loans as at 5:00 p.m. (New York time) on the day immediately preceding such Business Day; (ii) on the first Business Day after the date that occurs 180 days after the Closing Date, a fee equal to 0.25% of such Lender's Term Loans as at 5:00 p.m. (New York time) on the day immediately preceding such Business Day; and (iii) on the first Business Day after the date that occurs 270 days after the Closing Date, a fee equal to 0.50% of such Lender's Term Loans as at 5:00 p.m. (New York time) on the day immediately preceding such Business Day.
Duration Fee
(b) . The Borrower shall pay to JPMS and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Fee Letter
 
(a) All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans (including Base Rate Loans determined by reference to the Eurodollar Base Rate) shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
Section 2.12(a)
(b) If, as a result of any restatement of or other adjustment to the financial statements of the Borrower or for any other reason, the Borrower or the Lenders determine that (i) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as calculated by the Borrower as of any applicable date was inaccurate and (ii) a proper calculation of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio would have resulted in higher pricing for such period, the Borrower shall immediately and retroactively be obligated to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable Lenders, promptly on demand by the Administrative Agent (or, after the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, automatically and without further action by the Administrative Agent or any Lender), an amount equal to the excess of the amount of interest and fees that should have
 
been paid for such period over the amount of interest and fees actually paid for such period. This paragraph shall not limit the rights of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the case may be, under Section  or under . The Borrower's obligations under this paragraph shall survive the repayment of all the Obligations hereunder.
2.08(b)
Article IX
 
The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a promissory note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each such promissory note shall be in the form of (a ""). Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
Exhibit 2.11
Note
 
(a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 2:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 1:00 p.m. on the date of such Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
 
a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
(ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the time at which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article V
(d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 11.04(c)
Section 11.04(c)
Section 11.04(c)
(e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
(f) . If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) , toward payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) , toward payment of principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
Insufficient Funds
first
second
 
If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Loans made by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
pro
rata
provided
(i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (A) any payment made by or on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (B) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than an assignment to any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
Each Loan Party consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Loan Party rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Loan Party in the amount of such participation.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as that Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, that Defaulting Lender's right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in Section 11.01.
 
(a) . (i) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Loan Parties hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall to the extent permitted by applicable Laws be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Taxes. If, however, applicable Laws require any Loan Party or the Administrative Agent to withhold or deduct any Tax, such Tax shall be withheld or deducted in accordance with such Laws as determined by such Loan Party or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, upon the basis of the information and documentation to be delivered pursuant to subsection (e) below.
Payments Free of Taxes; Obligation to Withhold; Payments on Account of Taxes
(ii) If the Loan Parties or the Administrative Agent shall be required by the Internal Revenue Code to withhold or deduct any Taxes, including both United States Federal backup withholding and withholding taxes, from any payment, then (A) the Administrative Agent shall withhold or make such deductions as are determined by the Administrative Agent to be required based upon the information and documentation it has received pursuant to subsection (e) below, (B) the Administrative Agent shall timely pay the full amount withheld or deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code, and (C) to the extent that the withholding or deduction is made on account of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, the sum payable by the Loan Parties shall be increased as necessary so that after any required withholding or the making of all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such withholding or deduction been made.
 
(b) . Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Loan Parties shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Laws.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Loan Parties
(c) . (i) Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, the Loan Parties shall, and do hereby, indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, and shall make payment in respect thereof within ten days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) withheld or deducted by the Loan Parties or the Administrative Agent or paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The Loan Parties shall also, and do hereby, indemnify the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within ten days after demand therefor, for any amount which a Lender for any reason fails to pay indefeasibly to the Administrative Agent as required by clause (ii) of this subsection. A certificate as to the amount of any such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Tax Indemnification
(ii) Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, each Lender shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Loan Parties and the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within ten days after demand therefor, against any and all Taxes and any and all related losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, interest and expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Borrower or the Administrative Agent) incurred by or asserted against the Borrower or the Administrative Agent by any Governmental Authority as a result of the failure by such Lender to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Lender to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (e). Each Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under this Agreement or any other Loan Document against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this clause (ii). The agreements in this clause (ii) shall survive the resignation and/or replacement of the Administrative Agent, any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender, the termination of the Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all other Obligations.
 
(d) . Upon request by any Loan Party or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, after any payment of Taxes by such Loan Party or by the Administrative Agent to a Governmental Authority as provided in this , such Loan Party shall deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Administrative Agent shall deliver to such Loan Party, as the case may be, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of any return required by Law to report such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to such Loan Party or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be.
Evidence of Payments
Section 3.01
(e) . (i) Each Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and to the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by applicable Laws or when reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable Laws or by the taxing authorities of any jurisdiction and such other reasonably requested information as will permit the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine (A) whether or not payments made hereunder or under any other Loan Document are subject to Taxes, (B) if applicable, the required rate of withholding or deduction, and (C) such Lender's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable Taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's status for withholding tax purposes in the applicable jurisdiction.
Status of Lenders; Tax Documentation
(ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States,
(A) any Lender that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable Laws or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements; and
(B) each Foreign Lender that is entitled under the Internal Revenue Code or any applicable treaty to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(I) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(II) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(III) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY and all required supporting documentation,
(IV) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank"
 
within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code and (y) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
(V) executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable Laws as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable Laws to permit the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
(iii) Each Lender shall promptly (A) notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction, and (B) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any jurisdiction that the Borrower or the Administrative Agent make any withholding or deduction for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender.
(iv) If a payment made to a Lender under any Loan Document would be subject to United States withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as may be necessary for the Borrower and the Administrative Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this clause (iv), "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
(f) . Unless required by applicable Laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Lender, or have any obligation to pay to any Lender, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted from funds paid for the account of such Lender. If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by any Loan Party or with respect to which any Loan Party has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to such Loan Party an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Loan Party under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that each Loan Party, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Loan Party (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
 
If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Loans whose interest is determined by reference to the Eurodollar Base Rate, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Base Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, (i) any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended and (ii) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender making or maintaining Base Rate Loans the interest rate on which is determined by reference to the Eurodollar Base Rate component of the Base Rate, the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender, shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurodollar Base Rate component of the Base Rate, in each case until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, (x) the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all of such Lender's Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans (the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurodollar Base Rate component of the Base Rate), either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans and (y) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender determining or charging interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Base Rate, the Administrative Agent shall during the period of such suspension compute the Base Rate applicable to such Lender without reference to the Eurodollar Base Rate component thereof until the Administrative Agent is advised in writing by such Lender that it is no longer illegal for such Lender to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Base Rate. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
 
If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan or in connection with an existing or proposed Base Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan or in connection with a Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, (x) the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended and (y) in the event of a determination described in the preceding sentence with respect to the Eurodollar Base Rate component of the Base Rate, the utilization of the Eurodollar Base Rate component in determining the Base Rate shall be suspended, in each case until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
 
(a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate);
(ii) subject the Administrative Agent or any Lender to any Taxes (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes, (B) Excluded Taxes and (C) Other Taxes) on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto; or
(iii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to the Administrative Agent or such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by the Administrative Agent or such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, the Borrower will pay to the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) . If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital or liquidity requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy and liquidity), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
(c) . A certificate of a Lender setting forth, with supporting calculations in reasonable detail, the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within ten days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
(d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
 
Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
(a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Eurodollar Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
(c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ; or
Section 11.13
including any loss of anticipated profits, foreign exchange losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Base Rate used in determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
 
(a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender, or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall, as applicable, use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
(b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 11.13
 
All of the Loan Parties' obligations under this shall survive termination of the Commitments, repayment of all other Obligations hereunder, and resignation of the Administrative Agent.
Article III
 
Each of the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally guarantees to each Lender, each Affiliate of a Lender that enters into a Swap Contract or a Treasury Management Agreement with any Loan Party or any Subsidiary, and the Administrative Agent as hereinafter provided, as primary obligor and not as surety, the prompt payment of the Obligations in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise) strictly in accordance with the terms thereof. The Guarantors hereby further agree that if any of the Obligations are not paid in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise), the Guarantors will, jointly and severally, promptly pay the same, without any demand or notice whatsoever, and that in the case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any of the Obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due (whether at extended maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise) in accordance with the terms of such extension or renewal.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in any other of the Loan Documents, Swap Contracts or Treasury Management Agreements, the obligations of each Guarantor under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not exceed an aggregate amount equal to the largest amount that would not render such obligations subject to avoidance under applicable Debtor Relief Laws.
 
The obligations of the Guarantors under are joint and several, absolute and unconditional, irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents or other documents relating to the Obligations, or any substitution, release, impairment or exchange of any other guarantee of or security for any of the Obligations, and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any other circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor, it being the intent of this that the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Each Guarantor agrees that such Guarantor shall have no right of subrogation, indemnity, reimbursement or contribution against the Borrower or any other Guarantor for amounts paid under this until such time as the Obligations have been paid in full and the Commitments have expired or terminated. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is agreed that, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, the occurrence of any one or more of the following shall not alter or impair the liability of any Guarantor hereunder, which shall remain absolute and unconditional as described above:
Section 4.01
Section 4.02
Article IV
(a) at any time or from time to time, without notice to any Guarantor, the time for any performance of or compliance with any of the Obligations shall be extended, or such performance or compliance shall be waived;
 
(b) any of the acts mentioned in any of the provisions of any of the Loan Documents or other documents relating to the Obligations shall be done or omitted;
(c) the maturity of any of the Obligations shall be accelerated, or any of the Obligations shall be modified, supplemented or amended in any respect, or any right under any of the Loan Documents or other documents relating to the Obligations shall be waived or any other guarantee of any of the Obligations or any security therefor shall be released, impaired or exchanged in whole or in part or otherwise dealt with;
(d) any Lien granted to, or in favor of, the Administrative Agent or any other holder of the Obligations as security for any of the Obligations shall fail to attach or be perfected; or
(e) any of the Obligations shall be determined to be void or voidable (including, without limitation, for the benefit of any creditor of any Guarantor) or shall be subordinated to the claims of any Person (including, without limitation, any creditor of any Guarantor).
With respect to its obligations hereunder, each Guarantor hereby expressly waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, protest and all notices whatsoever, and any requirement that the Administrative Agent or any other holder of the Obligations exhaust any right, power or remedy or proceed against any Person under any of the Loan Documents or any other document relating to the Obligations, or against any other Person under any other guarantee of, or security for, any of the Obligations.
 
The obligations of the Guarantors under this shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by any holder of any of the Obligations, whether as a result of any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, and each Guarantor agrees that it will indemnify the Administrative Agent and each other holder of the Obligations on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, the fees, charges and disbursements of counsel) incurred by the Administrative Agent or such holder of the Obligations in connection with such rescission or restoration, including any such costs and expenses incurred in defending against any claim alleging that such payment constituted a preference, fraudulent transfer or similar payment under any Debtor Relief Law.
Article IV
 
Each Guarantor agrees that such Guarantor shall have no right of recourse to security for the Obligations, except through the exercise of rights of subrogation pursuant to and through the exercise of rights of contribution pursuant to .
Section 4.02
Section 4.06
 
The Guarantors agree that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the other holders of the Obligations, on the other hand, the Obligations may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as specified in (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances specified in said ) for purposes of notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing the Obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against any other Person and that, in the event of such declaration (or the Obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), the Obligations (whether or not due and payable by any other Person) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for purposes of .
Section 9.02
Section 9.02
Section 4.01
Section 4.01
 
The Guarantors agree among themselves that, in connection with payments made hereunder, each Guarantor shall have contribution rights against the other Guarantors as permitted under applicable law. Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the obligations of such Guarantors under the Loan Documents and no Guarantor shall exercise such rights of contribution until all Obligations have been paid in full and the Commitments have terminated.
 
The guarantee in this is a guaranty of payment and not of collection, is a continuing guarantee, and shall apply to all Obligations whenever arising.
Article IV
 
This Agreement shall be effective upon satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
(a) . Receipt by the Administrative Agent of executed counterparts of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party and, in the case of this Agreement, by each Lender.
Loan Documents
(b) . Receipt by the Administrative Agent of favorable opinions of legal counsel to the Loan Parties, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, dated as of the Closing Date, and in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Opinions of Counsel
(c) . There shall not have occurred a material adverse change since December 31, 2011 in the business, assets, liabilities (actual or contingent), operations or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
No Material Adverse Change
(d) Receipt by the Administrative Agent of the following, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
Organization Documents, Resolutions, Etc.
(i) copies of the Organization Documents of each Loan Party certified to be true and complete as of a recent date by the appropriate Governmental Authority of the state or other jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, where applicable, and certified by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party to be true and correct as of the Closing Date;
(ii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party; and
(iii) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, and is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in its state of organization or formation.
 
(e) . Receipt by the Administrative Agent of a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying that the conditions specified in and and  have been satisfied.
Closing Certificate
Section 5.01(c)
Sections 5.02(a)
(b)
(f) . Receipt by the Administrative Agent, JPMS and the Lenders of any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date.
Fees
(g) . The Borrower shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
Attorney Costs
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 10.03
Section 5.01
 
The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension is subject to the following conditions precedent:
(a) The representations and warranties of each Loan Party contained in or any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct in all material respects (or, if such representation or warranty is qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect, it shall be true and correct in all respects as drafted) on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct in all material respects (or, if such representation or warranty is qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect, it shall be true and correct in all respects as drafted) as of such earlier date.
Article VI
(b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
Each Request for Credit Extension submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 5.02(a)
(b)
 
The Loan Parties represent and warrant to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
 
The Borrower and each of the Subsidiaries (a) (i) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (ii) has all requisite power and authority to own its property and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted and as proposed to be conducted and (iii) is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where any such failure, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and (b) has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each of the Loan Documents and each other agreement or instrument contemplated hereby to which it is or will be a party and, in the case of the Borrower, to borrow and receive other Credit Extensions hereunder.
 
The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party (a) have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate or other organizational action and, if required, equity holder action and (b) will not (i) violate (A) any provision of Law or of the Organization Documents of such Loan Party, (B) any order of any Governmental Authority or (C) any provision of any indenture, agreement or other instrument to which such Loan Party is a party or by which any of them or any of their property is or may be bound, (ii) be in conflict with, result in a breach of or constitute (alone or with notice or lapse of time or both) a default under, or give rise to any right to accelerate or to require the prepayment, repurchase or redemption of any obligation under any such indenture, agreement or other instrument, or (iii) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien upon or with respect to any property or assets now owned or hereafter acquired by the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
 
This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party and constitutes, and each other Loan Document when executed and delivered by each Loan Party thereto will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with its terms, except as may be limited by applicable Debtor Relief Laws or by equitable principles relating to enforceability.
 
No action, consent or approval of, registration or filing with or any other action by any Governmental Authority is or will be required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document such as have been made or obtained and are in full force and effect.
 
The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its audited consolidated balance sheets and statements of income, stockholders' equity (in the case of the Borrower) and cash flows as of and for the
 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and its unaudited consolidated balance sheets and statements of income, stockholders' equity (in the case of the Borrower) and cash flows as of and for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012. Subject to normal year-end audit adjustments (in the case of unaudited statements), such financial statements present fairly the financial condition and results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods, such balance sheets and the notes thereto disclose all material liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof, and such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Since December 31, 2011, no event, change or condition has occurred that has had, or could reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(a) Each of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries has valid title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its material properties and assets, except for defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties and assets for their intended purposes. All such material properties and assets are free and clear of Liens, other than Permitted Liens.
(b) Each of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries has complied with all material obligations under all material leases to which it is a party and, to the Loan Parties' knowledge, all such leases are in full force and effect.
 
sets forth as of the Closing Date a list of all Subsidiaries and the percentage ownership interest of the Borrower therein. The Equity Interests so indicated on are fully paid and non-assessable and as of the Closing Date are owned by the Borrower, directly or indirectly, free and clear of all Liens, other than Liens created under the "Collateral Documents" (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement).
Schedule 6.08
Schedule 6.08
 
(a) Except as set forth on , there are not any actions, suits or proceedings at law or in equity or by or before any Governmental Authority now pending or, to the knowledge of the Loan Parties, threatened against or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any business, property or rights of any such Person (i) that involve any Loan Document or the transactions contemplated thereby or (ii) which could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 6.09
(b) None of the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries or any of their respective material properties or assets is in violation of any Law, or is in default with respect to any judgment, writ, injunction, decree or order of any Governmental Authority, where such violation or default could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(a) Neither the Borrower, nor any of the Subsidiaries is a party to any Contractual Obligation or subject to any corporate or similar restriction that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(b) Neither the Borrower, nor any of the Subsidiaries is in default in any manner under any provision of any indenture or other agreement or instrument evidencing Indebtedness, or any other material Contractual Obligation to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties or assets are or may be bound, where such default could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(a) Neither the Borrower, nor any of the Subsidiaries is engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of buying or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB).
(b) No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, for any purpose that entails a violation of, or that is inconsistent with, the provisions of the regulations issued by the FRB, including Regulation T, U or X.
(c) Following the application of the proceeds of each Borrowing, not more than 25% of the value of the assets (either of the Borrower only or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) subject to the provisions of Section 8.02 or Section 8.05 or subject to any restriction contained in any agreement or instrument between the Borrower and any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender relating to Indebtedness and within the scope of Section 9.01(e) will be margin stock.
 
Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
 
The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions to finance lawful corporate purposes.
 
Each of the Borrower, and the Subsidiaries (a) has filed or caused to be filed all Federal, state, local and foreign Tax returns or materials required to have been filed by it except for foreign filings the delinquency of which could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (b) has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes due and payable by it and all material written assessments received by it, except Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves.
 
None of the information, reports, financial statements, exhibits or schedules furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, JPMS or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of any Loan Document or included therein or delivered pursuant thereto contained, contains
 
or will contain any material misstatement of fact or omitted, omits or will omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were, are or will be made, not misleading; that to the extent any such information, report, financial statement, exhibit or schedule was based upon or constitutes a forecast or projection, the Loan Parties represent only that they acted in good faith and utilized reasonable assumptions and due care in the preparation of such information, report, financial statement, exhibit or schedule.
provided
 
Each of the Borrower and its ERISA Affiliates is in compliance in all respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder, except where such non-compliance, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(a) Except as set forth in and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Borrower nor any of the Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has received written notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iii) knows of any Release of any Hazardous Materials at any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any Subsidiary requiring any reporting, investigative, cleanup, removal or response action pursuant to any applicable Environmental Law, which action has not been completed, except for Releases occurring pursuant to permits, licenses or approvals issued pursuant to Environmental Laws.
Schedule 6.17
(b) Since the Closing Date, there has been no change in the status of the matters disclosed on that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in, or materially increased the likelihood of, a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 6.17
 
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have insurance in such amounts and covering such risks and liabilities as are in accordance with normal industry practice.
 
 
As of the Closing Date, there are no strikes, lockouts or slowdowns against the Borrower or any Subsidiary pending or, to the knowledge of the Loan Parties, threatened. Except with respect to any violations that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, the hours worked by and payments made to employees of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries have not been in violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act or any other applicable Federal, state, local or foreign Law dealing with such matters. All payments due from the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or for which any claim may be made against the Borrower or any Subsidiary, on account of wages and employee health and welfare insurance and other benefits, have been paid or accrued as a liability on the books of the Borrower or such Subsidiary except where the failure to make or accrue any such payments, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material
 
Adverse Effect. The consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents will not give rise to any right of termination or right of renegotiation on the part of any union under any collective bargaining agreement to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is bound.
 
Immediately following the making of each Credit Extension and after giving effect to the application of the proceeds of thereof, (a) the fair value of the assets of each Loan Party, at a fair valuation, will exceed its debts and liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise; (b) the present fair saleable value of the property of each Loan Party will be greater than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of its debts and other liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and other liabilities become absolute and matured; (c) each Loan Party will be able to pay its debts and liabilities, subordinated, contingent or otherwise, as such debts and liabilities become absolute and matured; and (d) each Loan Party will not have unreasonably small capital with which to conduct the business in which it is engaged as such business is now conducted and is proposed to be conducted following the Closing Date.
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, each Loan Party shall and shall cause each Subsidiary to:
 
(a) Do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence, except as otherwise expressly permitted under and except, with respect to any Subsidiary, where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 8.05
(b) Do or cause to be done all things necessary to obtain, preserve, renew, extend and keep in full force and effect the rights, licenses, permits, franchises, authorizations, patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade names material to the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; maintain and operate such business in substantially the manner in which it is presently conducted and operated; comply in all material respects with all applicable Laws, whether now in effect or hereafter enacted, except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and at all times maintain and preserve all property material to the conduct of such business and keep such property in good repair, working order and condition and from time to time make, or cause to be made, all needful and proper repairs, renewals, additions, improvements and replacements thereto necessary in order that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times, except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Keep its insurable properties adequately insured at all times by financially sound and reputable insurers (after giving effect to any self-insurance in amounts customary in the Borrower's industry); maintain such other insurance, to such extent and against such risks, including fire and other risks insured against by extended coverage, as is customary with companies in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations, including public liability insurance against claims for personal injury or death or property damage occurring upon, in, about or in connection with the use of any properties owned, occupied or controlled by it; and maintain such other insurance as may be required by Law.
 
Pay its Indebtedness promptly and in accordance with its terms and pay and discharge promptly when due all Taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its income or profits or in respect of its property, before the same shall become delinquent or in default, as well as all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies or otherwise that, if unpaid, might give rise to a Lien upon such properties or any part thereof; , , that such payment and discharge shall not be required with respect to any such Tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim so long as (a) the validity or amount thereof shall be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP, and (c) such contest operates to suspend collection of the contested obligation, Tax, assessment or charge and enforcement of a Lien.
provided
however
 
In the case of the Borrower, furnish to the Administrative Agent:
(a) within 100 days after the end of each fiscal year commencing with Borrower's fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows showing the financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year and the results of its operations and the operations of such Subsidiaries during such year, all audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing and accompanied by an opinion of such accountants (which shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements fairly present the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP;
(b) within 50 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows showing the financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal quarter and the results of its operations and the operations of such Subsidiaries during such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, compared with the results of its operations and the operations of its Subsidiaries in the corresponding quarter from the prior fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as fairly presenting the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments;
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under or above, a duly completed Compliance Certificate, signed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower;
Section 7.04(a)
7.04(b)
(d) unless the Borrower has Investment Grade Ratings, within 30 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a detailed consolidated budget for the current fiscal year (including a projected consolidated balance sheet and related statements of projected operations and cash flow as of the end of and for each quarter of such fiscal year and as of the end of and for such fiscal year and describing the assumptions used for purposes of preparing such budget) and, promptly when available, any significant revisions of such budget;
 
(e) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the SEC or with any national securities exchange, or distributed to its shareholders, as the case may be;
(f) promptly after the receipt thereof by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, a copy of any final "management letter" received by any such Person from its certified public accountants and the management's response thereto; and
(g) promptly, from time to time, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of any Loan Document, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to , or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender upon its request to the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. The Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery of or to maintain paper copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request by a Lender for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 7.04(a)
7.04(b)
7.04(e)
Schedule 11.02
provided
i.e.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as all of the Lenders hereunder are then party to the Existing Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall be deemed to have delivered, and the Administrative Agent shall be deemed to have received, the items required to be furnished under this Section 5.01 when any such item is furnished by the Borrower pursuant to, and in accordance with the terms of, the Existing Credit Agreement.
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or JPMS will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders (each a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities. The Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
 
be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, JPMS and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated as "Public Side Information;" and (z) the Administrative Agent and JPMS shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform that is not marked as "Public Side Information." Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
provided
however
Section 11.07
 
Furnish to the Administrative Agent, for distribution to the Lenders, prompt written notice of the following:
(a) any Default, specifying the nature and extent thereof and the corrective action (if any) taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto;
(b) the filing or commencement of, or any threat or notice of intention of any Person to file or commence, any action, suit or proceeding, whether at law or in equity or by or before any Governmental Authority, against the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $10,000,000;
(d) any notice from S&P or Moody's indicating the possibility of an adverse change in the credit ratings applicable to the Borrower or any of its Indebtedness assigned by S&P or Moody's and promptly after the Borrower obtains knowledge of any change in the rating established by S&P or Moody's, as applicable, with respect to the Debt Rating, a notice of such change, which notice shall specify the new rating, the date on which such change was publicly announced, and such other information with respect to such change as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request; and
(e) any development that has resulted in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(a) Furnish to the Administrative Agent prompt written notice of any change (i) in any Loan Party's legal name or in any trade name used to identify it in the conduct of its business or in the ownership of its properties, (ii) jurisdiction of organization of any Loan Party, (iii) in any Loan Party's identity or legal organization structure or (iv) in any Loan Party's Federal Taxpayer Identification Number.
(b) Each year, at the time of delivery of the annual financial statements with respect to the preceding fiscal year pursuant to , deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a Financial Officer (i) confirming that there has been no change since the Closing Date or the date of the most recent certificate delivered pursuant to this to any of the items set forth in and (ii) setting forth supplements to as are necessary such that, as supplemented, such would be accurate and complete as of the date of the most recent certificate delivered pursuant to this .
Section 7.04(a)
Section 7.06(b)
Section 7.06(a)
Schedule 6.08
Schedule
Section 7.06(b)
 
(a) Keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP and all requirements of Law are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities.
(b) Permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender to visit and inspect the financial records and the properties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary at reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested and to make extracts from and copies of such financial records, and permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender to discuss the affairs, finances and condition of the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the officers thereof and independent accountants therefor; that any such visit or inspection does not interfere with the normal operation of such business conducted at the properties, and that reasonable prior notice of any discussions with the Borrower's independent accountants shall be given to Borrower and Borrower shall have the opportunity to be present and participate in any such discussions.
provided
provided
further
 
Use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions to finance lawful corporate purposes, that in no event shall the proceeds of the Credit Extensions be used in contravention of any Law or of any Loan Document.
provided
 
In the case of the Borrower, maintain Debt Ratings.
 
Within forty-five days after the acquisition or formation of any (i) Domestic Subsidiary or (ii) any Foreign Subsidiary that is a direct Subsidiary of a Loan Party:
(a) notify the Administrative Agent thereof in writing, together with the (i) jurisdiction of formation, (ii) number of shares of each class of Equity Interests outstanding, (iii) number and percentage of outstanding shares of each class owned (directly or indirectly) by the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (iv) number and effect, if exercised, of all outstanding options, warrants, rights of conversion or purchase and all other similar rights with respect thereto; and
(b) except as provided below, if such Subsidiary is a Domestic Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiaries, unless the Borrower otherwise consents in writing), cause such Person to (i) become a Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a Joinder Agreement or such other documents as the Administrative Agent shall deem appropriate for such purpose, and (ii) upon the request of the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, deliver to the Administrative Agent such Organization Documents, resolutions and favorable opinions of counsel, all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. Notwithstanding the forgoing, Finsub shall not be required to become a Guarantor.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the requirements set forth in shall not apply to any Domestic Subsidiary that is a direct Subsidiary of a Foreign Subsidiary, if such requirements would
Section 7.10(b)
 
cause the undistributed earnings of such Foreign Subsidiary, as determined for United States federal income tax purposes, to be treated as a deemed dividend to the Foreign Subsidiary's parent, or otherwise result in a material adverse tax consequence.
So long as any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, no Loan Party shall, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
 
Incur, create, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
(a) Indebtedness existing on the Closing Date and set forth in (and renewals, refinancings and extensions thereof); that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, renewal or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing and by an amount equal to any existing commitments unutilized thereunder;
Schedules 8.01
provided
(b) Indebtedness under the Loan Documents and Indebtedness under the Existing Credit Agreement;
(c) intercompany Indebtedness to the extent that the loan or advance to the applicable debtor was permitted under ;
Section 8.04
(d) Capital Lease Obligations and other Indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any fixed or capital assets, including any Indebtedness assumed in connection with the acquisition of any such assets or secured by a Lien on any such assets prior to the acquisition thereof, and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; that the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness shall not exceed $100,000,000 at any time outstanding;
provided
(e) Indebtedness under industrial revenue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $20,000,000 at any time outstanding;
(f) Indebtedness incurred by Foreign Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $100,000,000 at any time outstanding;
(g) Receivables Program Indebtedness in an amount not exceeding $200,000,000 in the aggregate at any time outstanding;
(h) Indebtedness solely in respect of surety and performance bonds, bank guarantees, letters of credit and similar obligations in respect of contractual obligations of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (including such contingent contractual obligations issued pursuant to the Calyon LOC Agreement), that such obligations are (i) incurred in the ordinary course of business of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries and (ii) except as expressly permitted under ), , , or , unsecured;
provided
Section 8.02(a
8.02 (c)
8.02(f)
8.02(g)
8.02(l)
 
(i) New Unsecured Debt;
(j) (i) other secured Indebtedness incurred by the Loan Parties and (ii) other Indebtedness incurred by Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties in an aggregate principal amount for all such Indebtedness described in the forgoing subclauses (i) and (ii) not to exceed $200,000,000 at any time outstanding;
(k) Guarantees with respect to Indebtedness permitted under this ; that in the case of any Guarantee provided by a Loan Party in respect of Indebtedness of a Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party, such Guarantee is also permitted under any of through ; and
Section 8.01
provided
Sections 8.04(d)
8.04(h)
(l) Guarantees with respect to the payment of the Existing Credit Agreement Obligations and any agreement renewing, refinancing or extending the Existing Credit Agreement Obligations or the Existing Credit Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 8.01 shall not (i) prohibit, restrict or impose any condition upon the ability of any Loan Party to Guarantee Indebtedness of any Loan Party or (ii) prohibit Guarantees by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to Guarantee payment of the Existing Credit Agreement Obligations or the Existing Credit Agreement.
 
Create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or assets now owned or hereafter acquired by it or on any income or revenues or rights in respect of any thereof, except:
(a) Liens existing on the Closing Date and set forth on ; that to the extent such Liens secure obligations, they shall secure only those obligations which they secure on the Closing Date and any extensions, renewals or replacements thereof to the extent the same are permitted under ;
Schedule 8.02
provided
Section 8.01
(b) any Lien created under the "Loan Documents" as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement and any other Lien securing the Existing Credit Agreement Obligations or any Indebtedness refinancing the Existing Credit Agreement Obligations;
(c) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower or any Subsidiary; that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition and (ii) such Lien does not apply to any other property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
provided
(d) Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in compliance with ;
Section 7.03
(e) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not due and payable or which are being contested in compliance with ;
Section 7.03
(f) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workmen's compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
 
(g) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for Indebtedness), leases (other than Capital Lease Obligations), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(h) zoning restrictions, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions on use of real property and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount and do not materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
(i) Liens on fixed or capital assets hereafter acquired (or, in the case of improvements, constructed) by the Borrower or any Subsidiary that secure Indebtedness permitted by , that (i) such Liens are incurred, and the Indebtedness secured thereby is created, within 90 days after such acquisition (or construction) and (ii) such Liens do not apply to any other property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
Section 8.01(d)
provided
(j) Liens on the property of Finsub incurred pursuant to the Receivables Program Documentation;
(k) Liens arising out of judgments or awards that do not constitute an Event of Default under or in respect of which the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries shall in good faith be prosecuting an appeal or proceedings for review in respect of which there shall be secured a subsisting stay of execution pending such appeal or proceedings;
Section 9.01(h)
(l) Liens on assets of Foreign Subsidiaries securing Indebtedness permitted by ; and
Section 8.01(f)
(m) Liens securing Indebtedness permitted by .
Section 8.01(j)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 8.02 shall not prohibit, restrict or impose any condition upon the creation or assumption of any Lien on any of the properties or assets of the Loan Parties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, to secure payment of the Existing Credit Agreement Obligations or any agreement renewing, refinancing or extending the Existing Credit Agreement Obligations or the Existing Credit Agreement.
 
 
Make any Investment except:
(a) Investments existing on the Closing Date and set forth on ;
Schedule 8.04
(b) Investments in any Loan Party;
(c) Investments in any Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party by any other Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party;
(d) Investments by Loan Parties in Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties in an aggregate amount not exceed $400,000,000 at any time outstanding;
 
(e) Investments in Captive Insurance Company in an aggregate not to exceed $5,000,000 at any time outstanding;
(f) Investments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000, the proceeds of which are used, directly or indirectly, to acquire from any third-party joint venture participant all such participant's interest in a joint venture, with the result that the joint venture becomes a wholly owned Subsidiary,
(g) Investments in Flowserve Sanmar Limited in an aggregate amount (when combined with all outstanding Investments pursuant to ) not to exceed $15,000,000 at any time outstanding;
Section 8.04(h)
(h) Investments (i) in KSM's seals business acquired in exchange for, or in connection with an offsetting sale of, Flowserve International, Inc.'s existing interests in KSM's bellows business; or (ii) in additional interests in KSM for cash, or a combination of (i) and (ii), in an aggregate amount (when combined with all outstanding Investments pursuant to ) not to exceed $15,000,000 at any time outstanding;
Section 8.04(g)
(i) Permitted Investments;
(j) Investments received in connection with the bankruptcy or reorganization of, or settlement of delinquent accounts and disputes with, customers and suppliers, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(k) Investments consisting of loans and advances in the ordinary course of business to employees so long as the aggregate principal amount thereof at any time outstanding shall not exceed $5,000,000;
(l) Swap Contracts that are not speculative in nature, are entered into in the ordinary course of business and are related to interest rate hedging for floating interest rate exposure or hedging (including currency and commodity hedging) of bookings, sales, income and dividends derived from the foreign operations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or otherwise related to purchases from suppliers;
(m) Permitted Acquisitions;
(n) Investments in the form of promissory notes and other non-cash consideration received in connection with any asset disposition or transfer permitted by this Agreement;
(o) Investments consisting of Guarantees of loans, in an aggregate amount outstanding at any time not to exceed $30,000,000, made by third parties to employees who are participants in the Borrower's stock purchase program, if implemented, to enable such employees to purchase common stock of the Borrower;
(p) Investments consisting of Guarantees permitted by ;
Section 8.01
(q) other Investments (other than Investments in Foreign Subsidiaries) so long as the aggregate amount of such Investments does not exceed $20,000,000 in the aggregate at any time outstanding.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 8.04 shall not prohibit, restrict or impose any condition upon the ability of any Subsidiary to make or repay loans or advances to any Loan Party.
 
(a) . Merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate with or into another Person, except that so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom, (a) the Borrower may merge or consolidate with any of its Subsidiaries that the Borrower is the continuing or surviving corporation, (b) any Subsidiary may merge or consolidate with any other Subsidiary that if a Loan Party is a party to such transaction, the continuing or surviving Person is a Loan Party, (c) the Borrower or any Subsidiary may merge or consolidate with any other Person in connection with a Permitted Acquisition that (i) if the Borrower is a party to such transaction, the Borrower is the continuing or surviving corporation and (ii) if a Guarantor is a party to such transaction, the surviving Person shall be a Guarantor and (d) any Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor may dissolve, liquidate or wind up its affairs at any time provided that such dissolution, liquidation or winding up, as applicable, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Mergers; Consolidations
provided
provided
provided
(b) . Engage in any Asset Sale unless (i) such Asset Sale is for consideration at least 75% of which is cash, (ii) such consideration is at least equal to the fair market value (in the case of an asset with a fair market value in excess of $30,000,000, as determined in good faith by the board of directors of the Borrower) of the assets being sold, transferred, leased or disposed of and (iii) the fair market value of all assets sold, transferred, leased or disposed of pursuant to this shall not exceed (i) $100,000,000 in any fiscal year or (ii) $350,000,000 in the aggregate from and after the Closing Date, that the limitations set forth in this clause (iii) shall not apply to the non-recourse factoring of accounts receivable by Foreign Subsidiaries so long as the aggregate outstanding amount of accounts receivable (assuming each such account receivable remains outstanding for the number of days provided in the applicable invoice for non-delinquent payment) at any time which have been so factored shall not exceed $75,000,000.
Asset Sales
Section 8.05(b)
provided
(c) . Engage in any Asset Swap unless all of the following conditions are met: (i) if the fair market value of the assets transferred exceeds $25,000,000, the board of directors of the Borrower approves such exchange and the Borrower secures an appraisal given by an unaffiliated third party in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (ii) the fair market value of all assets of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries transferred pursuant to Asset Swaps since the Closing Date shall not exceed $100,000,000 in the aggregate and (iii) the fair market value of any property or assets received is at least equal to the fair market value of the property or assets so transferred.
Asset Swaps
 
(a) Declare or pay, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, except that:
(i) each Subsidiary may make Restricted Payments to Persons that own Equity Interests in such Subsidiary, ratably according to their respective holdings of the type of Equity Interest in respect of which such Restricted Payment is being made;
(ii) the Borrower and each Subsidiary may declare and make dividend payments or other distributions payable in the form of Equity Interests of such Person;
(iii) so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom, the Borrower may repurchase shares of its capital stock owned by employees or make payments to employees in connection with the exercise of stock options, stock appreciation rights or similar equity
 
incentives or equity based incentives upon termination of employment or in connection with the death or disability of such employees, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 in any fiscal year;
(iv) so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom, the Borrower may repurchase shares of its capital stock for contribution to employee benefit plans maintained by the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 in any fiscal year;
(v) so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom and to the extent otherwise permitted by , any non-wholly owned Subsidiary may acquire its own Equity Interests from its minority owner(s); and
Section 8.04
(vi) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may make other Restricted Payments so long as (A) no Default exists or would result therefrom, and (B) the Borrower is and would be in compliance with the maximum Consolidated Leverage Ratio covenant set forth in on a Pro Forma Basis.
Section 8.11
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 8.06 shall not prohibit, restrict or impose any condition upon the ability of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments as permitted in the Existing Credit Agreement.
(b) Except as provided on , enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon (i) the ability of the Borrower or any Loan Party to create, incur or permit to exist any Lien upon any of its property or assets to secure the Obligations or any Indebtedness refinancing the Obligations, (ii) the ability of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments or to make or repay loans or advances to any Loan Party or (iii) the ability of any Loan Party to Guarantee Indebtedness of any Loan Party; that (A) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed by Law or by any Loan Document or by the Existing Credit Agreement, (B) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of assets or a Subsidiary pending such sale, such restrictions and conditions apply only to the assets or Subsidiary that is to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder, (C) the foregoing shall not apply to the restrictions and conditions imposed on Finsub under the Receivables Program Documentation, (D) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed on any Foreign Subsidiary by the terms of any Indebtedness of such Foreign Subsidiary permitted to be incurred hereunder, and (E) subclause (i) of the foregoing shall not apply to (1) restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement if such restrictions or conditions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness or (2) customary provisions in leases and other contracts restricting the assignment thereof.
Schedule 8.06
provided
provided
 
Sell or transfer any property or assets to, or purchase or acquire any property, assets or services from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except that (a) the Borrower or any Subsidiary may engage in any of the foregoing transactions at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (b) reasonable and customary fees may be paid to members of the board of directors, officers, employees and consultants for services rendered in the ordinary course of business, together with customary indemnities in connection therewith and in accordance with applicable Law, (c) Restricted Payments may be made pursuant to , and (d) intercompany transactions permitted by this Agreement may be consummated.
Section 8.06
 
Engage at any time in any business or business activity other than the business currently conducted by the Borrower and the Subsidiaries and business activities reasonably incidental thereto, including any activities permitted hereunder, which, in the case of Finsub, shall be limited solely to performing its obligations under the Receivables Program Documentation.
 
(a) If any Event of Default exists, amend or modify any of the terms of any Material Indebtedness if such amendment or modification would add or change any terms in a manner adverse to the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or shorten the final maturity or average life to maturity or require any payment to be made sooner than originally scheduled or increase the interest rate applicable thereto.
(b) Other than in accordance with the express terms of the subordination provisions or subordination agreement relating thereto, amend or modify any of the terms of any subordinated Indebtedness or make any payments in respect of any subordinated Indebtedness.
(c) Except as set forth on , pay in cash any amount in respect of any Indebtedness or preferred Equity Interests that may at the obligor's option be paid in kind or in other securities.
Schedule 8.09
 
With respect to the Borrower, change its fiscal year-end to a date other than December 31; that the Borrower may use a 52/53 week fiscal year ending around December 31.
provided
 
(a) . Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower to be greater than 3.25 to 1.0.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
(b) . Permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower to be less than 3.25 to 1.0.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
 
Use the proceeds of any Credit Extension, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose.
 
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
(a) . Any Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, and in the currency required hereunder, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within three Business
Non-Payment
 
Days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
(b) . Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , or or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 7.01(a)
7.05
7.08
Article VIII
(c) . Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for thirty days after the earlier of (i) a Responsible Office of the Borrower becoming aware thereof or (ii) notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower; or
Other Defaults
(d) . Any representation or warranty made or deemed made in or in connection with any Loan Document or the Credit Extensions hereunder, or any representation, warranty, statement or information contained in any report, certificate, financial statement or other instrument furnished in connection with or pursuant to any Loan Document, shall prove to have been false or misleading in any material respect when so made, deemed made or furnished; or
Representations and Warranties
(e) . Any Loan Party or any Subsidiary shall (i) fail to pay any principal or interest, regardless of amount, due in respect of any Material Indebtedness when and as the same shall become due and payable (after giving effect to any applicable grace period), or (ii) fail to observe or perform any other term, covenant, condition or agreement contained in any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing any such Indebtedness, in each case unless such failure has been waived pursuant to a written waiver from the holder of such Material Indebtedness) if the effect of any failure referred to in this clause (ii) is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or a trustee on its or their behalf to cause, such Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity; or
Cross-Default
(f) An involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking (i) relief in respect of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary (other than any Immaterial Subsidiary), or of a substantial part of the property or assets of any Loan Party or a Subsidiary (other than any Immaterial Subsidiary), under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar Law, (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for any Loan Party or any Subsidiary (other than any Immaterial Subsidiary) or for a substantial part of the property or assets of any Loan Party or a Subsidiary (other than any Immaterial Subsidiary) or (iii) the winding-up or liquidation of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary (other than any Immaterial Subsidiary); and such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered; or
Involuntary Proceedings, Etc.
(g) . Any Loan Party or any Subsidiary (other than any Immaterial Subsidiary) shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or the filing of any petition described in , (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for any Loan Party or any Subsidiary (other than any Immaterial Subsidiary) or for a substantial part of the property or assets of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary (other than any Immaterial Subsidiary), (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, (vi) become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due or (vii) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; or
Voluntary Proceedings, Etc
Section 9.01(f)
 
(h) . There is entered against any Loan Party or any Subsidiary (i) one or more final judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount (as to all such judgments or orders) exceeding the $10,000,000 (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer has been notified of the claim and does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of thirty consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
Judgments
(i) . An ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the reasonable opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; or
ERISA
(j) . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
(k) . There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
 
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
(a) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
(b) exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents or applicable Law or equity;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
 
After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
Section 9.02
Section 9.02
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and interest on the Loans and fees, premiums and scheduled periodic payments, and any interest accrued thereon, due under any Swap Contract between any Loan Party or any Subsidiary and any Lender, or any Affiliate of a Lender, ratably among the Lenders (and, in the case of such Swap Contracts, Affiliates of Lenders) in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Third
Third
, to (a) payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, (b) payment of breakage, termination or other payments, and any interest accrued thereon, due under any Swap Contract between any Loan Party or any Subsidiary and any Lender, or any Affiliate of a Lender and (c) payments of amounts due under any Treasury Management Agreement between any Loan Party or any Subsidiary and any Lender, or any Affiliate of a Lender; and
Fourth
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
 
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints JPMCB to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and no Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
 
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or
 
unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with any Loan Party or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
 
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
(a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any Loan Party or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender.
Sections 11.01
9.02
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article V
 
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing
 
(including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Loan Parties), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
 
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
 
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (a) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (b) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 11.04
 
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
 
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the bookrunners, arrangers, syndication agents, documentation agents or co-agents shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
 
In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations arising under the Loan Documents that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.09
11.04
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, if the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
11.04
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
 
The Lenders irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion, to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder.
Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release its interest in particular types or items of property, or to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty, pursuant to this .
Section 10.10
 
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by any Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that
provided
further
(a) no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
(i) extend or increase the Commitment of a Lender without the written consent of such Lender whose Commitment is being extended or increased (it being understood and agreed that a waiver of any condition precedent set forth in or of any Default or a mandatory reduction in Commitments is not considered an extension or increase in Commitments of any Lender);
Section 5.02
(ii) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment (excluding mandatory prepayments) of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) or any scheduled reduction of the Commitments hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender entitled to receive such payment or whose Commitments are to be reduced;
(iii) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan, or (subject to clause (i) of the final proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender entitled to receive such amount; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to (A) amend the definition of "Default Rate" or waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate or (B) to amend any financial covenant hereunder (or any defined term used therein) even if the effect of such amendment would be to reduce the rate of interest on any Loan or to reduce any fee payable hereunder;
Section 11.01
provided
however
(iv) change in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
Section 9.03
(v) change any provision of this or the definition of "Required Lenders" without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; or
Section 11.01(a)
 
(vi) release the Borrower without the consent of each Lender, or, except in connection with a transaction permitted under , all or substantially all of the value of the Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender whose Obligations are guarantied thereby, except to the extent such release is permitted pursuant to (in which case such release may be made by the Administrative Agent acting alone); and
Section 8.05
Section 10.10
(b) unless also signed by the Administrative Agent, no amendment, waiver or consent shall affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document;
, , that notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, (i) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto and (ii) each Lender is entitled to vote as such Lender sees fit on any bankruptcy reorganization plan that affects the Loans, and each Lender acknowledges that the provisions of Section 1126(c) of the Bankruptcy Code of the United States supersedes the unanimous consent provisions set forth herein.
provided
however
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), except that (x) the Commitment of any Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender and (y) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
 
(a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
(i) if to any Loan Party or the Administrative Agent, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 11.02
(ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire (including, as appropriate, notices delivered solely to the Person designated by a Lender on its Administrative Questionnaire then in effect for the delivery of notices that may contain material non-public information relating to the Borrower).
Notices and other communications sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices and other communications sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices and other communications delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
 
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
(c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
(d) . Each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
 
(e) .The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of any Loan Party even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Loan Parties shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of a Loan Party. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
 
No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Loan Document (including the imposition of the Default Rate) preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided, and provided under each other Loan Document are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Loan Parties or any of them shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with for the benefit of all the Lenders; , , that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) any Lender from exercising setoff rights in accordance with (subject to the terms of ), or (c) any Lender from filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to any Loan Party under any Debtor Relief Law; and , , that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in clauses (b) and (c) of the preceding proviso and subject to , any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
Section 9.02
provided
however
Section 11.08
Section 2.13
provided
further
Section 9.02
Section 2.13
 
(a) .
Costs and Expenses
(i) The Loan Parties shall pay (A) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (B) all
 
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent), and shall pay all fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of the Administrative Agent, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (1) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (2) in connection with the Loans made issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
(ii) The Loan Parties shall pay all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Lender (limited in the case of fees, charges and disbursements of counsel, to one counsel for the Lenders, as a whole, except in the case of an actual conflict of interest, in which case the Loan Parties shall be required to reimburse the fees, charges and disbursements of one additional counsel to similarly situated Lenders that have such conflict) in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (i) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (ii) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
(b) . The Loan Parties shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by any Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including in respect of any matters addressed in ), (ii) any Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by a Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to a Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by any Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by any Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if such Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Loan Parties
Indemnitee
Section 3.01
, IN ALL CASES, WHETHER OR NOT CAUSED BY OR ARISING, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, OUT OF THE COMPARATIVE, CONTRIBUTORY OR SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE INDEMNITEE
provided
(c) . To the extent that the Loan Parties for any reason fail to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by them to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing (and
Reimbursement by Lenders
 
without limiting their obligation to do so), each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
provided
Section 2.12(d)
(d) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no Loan Party shall assert, and each Loan Party hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
(e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable within thirty days after demand therefore, which demand shall be accompanied by a statement from the applicable Indemnitee setting forth such amount in reasonable detail.
Payments
(f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
 
To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of any Loan Party is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment. The obligations of the Lenders under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
 
(a) . The provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and thereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder or thereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
(b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the related Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B) in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $1,000,000 in the case of an assignment of Term Loans unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single assignee (or to an assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
provided
however
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's Loans and Commitments, and rights and obligations with respect thereto, assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not prohibit any Lender from assigning all or a portion of its rights and obligations in respect of its outstanding Term Loans on a non-pro rata basis;
Proportionate Amounts
 
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; that the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within five (5) Business Days after having received notice thereof; and
provided
(B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments in respect of (1) any Term Loan Commitment if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender with a Commitment in respect of the Commitment subject to such assignment, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender or (2) any Term Loan to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; and
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to (A) the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries or (B) a natural person.
No Assignment to Certain Persons
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment). Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
11.04
(c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower (and such agency being solely for tax purposes), shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
 
(d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in that affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by Law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender. Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower (and such agency being solely for tax purposes), maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Loans or other obligations under the Loan Documents (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any Loans or its other obligations under any Loan Document) to any Person except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such Loan or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary. For the avoidance of doubt, the Administrative Agent (in its capacity as Administrative Agent) shall have no responsibility for maintaining a Participant Register.
Participations
Participant
provided
provided
Section 11.01(a)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 11.08
provided
Section 2.13
Participant Register
provided
(e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitation on Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
(f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
 
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to a Loan Party and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from a Loan Party or any Subsidiary relating to the Loan Parties or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by such Loan Party or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from a Loan Party or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning a Loan Party or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws.
 
If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Loan Party against any and all of the obligations of such Loan Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of such Loan Party may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender
 
agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Maximum Rate
 
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy or other electronic imaging means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 5.01
 
All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
 
If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
 
If (i) any Lender requests compensation under , (ii) the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to or (iii) a Lender (a "") does not consent to a proposed change, waiver, discharge or termination with respect to any Loan Document that has been approved by the Required Lenders as provided in but requires unanimous consent of all Lenders or all Lenders directly affected thereby (as applicable), then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Non-Consenting Lender
Section 11.01
Section 11.06
provided
(a) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 11.06(b)
(b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
(c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
(d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws; and
(e) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a Non-Consenting Lender's failure to consent to a proposed change, waiver, discharge or termination with respect to any Loan Document, the applicable replacement bank, financial institution or Fund consents to the proposed change, waiver, discharge or termination;
, , that the failure by such Lender to execute and deliver an Assignment and Assumption shall not impair the validity of the removal of such Lender and the mandatory assignment of such Lender's Commitments and outstanding Loans pursuant to this shall nevertheless be effective without the execution by such Lender of an Assignment and Assumption.
provided
further
Section 11.13
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
 
(a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
(b) . EACH LOAN PARTY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST ANY LOAN PARTY OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c) . EACH LOAN PARTY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
(d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 11.02
 
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
 
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), each of the
 
Loan Parties acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and JPMS are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and JPMS, on the other hand, (B) each of the Loan Parties has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) each of the Loan Parties is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent and JPMS each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Loan Parties or any of their respective Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor JPMS has any obligation to the Loan Parties or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and JPMS and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor JPMS has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by Law, each of the Loan Parties hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and JPMS with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
 
The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption or in any amendment or other modification hereof (including waivers and consents) shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
 
Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act"), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act. The Borrower shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
 
If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final
 
judgment is given. The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent from the Borrower in the Agreement Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent in such currency, the Administrative Agent agrees to return the amount of any excess to the Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOFthe parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
,
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
Investor Contact: Mike Mullin, Director Investor Relations (972) 443-6636
Media Contact: Steve Boone, Director Global Communications and Public Affairs, (972) 443-6644
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Flowserve Announces $300 Million Accelerated Share Repurchase Program
DALLAS, June 14, 2012  Flowserve Corporation (NYSE:FLS), a leading provider of flow control products and services for the global infrastructure markets, today announced that it has entered into an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreement with J.P. Morgan to repurchase an aggregate of $300 million of the company's common stock. The ASR is part of both the company's recently authorized $1 billion share repurchase program and its new capital structure strategy designed to prudently increase leverage while accelerating return of capital to shareholders.
At inception of the ASR, the company will receive approximately 80% of the total shares that would be repurchased at current share prices. The number of shares to be delivered at program completion, net of the initial delivery, will be based generally on the volume-weighted average price of Flowserve common stock during the repurchase period. The company anticipates that all repurchases under the ASR will be completed before the end of 2012.
The ASR is being funded through a combination of cash on hand, existing revolver capacity and proceeds from a new $250 million term loan, which the company executed today. The term loan bears an initial interest rate the same as, and contains terms similar to, the company's existing credit facility. The company's new capital structure strategy targets a gross leverage ratio of 1.0x-2.0x through the business cycle.
Mark Blinn, Flowserve president and chief executive officer, said, "This ASR represents a decisive step toward implementing the capital structure strategy we announced last month, and it further demonstrates our commitment to creating shareholder value through effective cash deployment."
About Flowserve
Flowserve Corp. is one of the world's leading providers of fluid motion and control products and services. Operating in more than 55 countries, the company produces engineered and industrial pumps, seals and valves as well as a range of related flow management services. More information about Flowserve can be obtained by visiting the company's Web site at .
www.flowserve.com
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Words or phrases such as, "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts," "predicts" or other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which include, without limitation, earnings forecasts, statements relating to our business strategy and statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies and anticipated developments concerning our industry, business, operations and financial performance and condition.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT:
The forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on our current expectations, projections, estimates and assumptions. These statements are only predictions, not guarantees. Such forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from what is forecast in such forward-looking statements, and include, without limitation, the following: a portion of our bookings may not lead to completed sales, and our ability to convert bookings into revenues at acceptable profit margins; changes in the global financial markets and the availability of capital and the potential for unexpected cancellations or delays of customer orders in our reported backlog; our dependence on our customers' ability to make required capital investment and maintenance expenditures; risks associated with cost overruns on fixed-fee projects and in taking customer orders for large complex custom engineered products; the substantial dependence of our sales on the success of the oil and gas, chemical, power generation and water management industries; the adverse impact of volatile raw materials prices on our products and operating margins; our ability to execute and realize the expected financial benefits from our strategic realignment initiatives; economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations, including military actions or trade embargoes that could affect customer markets, particularly Middle Eastern markets and global oil and gas producers, and non-compliance with U.S. export/re-export control, foreign corrupt practice laws, economic sanctions and import laws and regulations; our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including in hyperinflationary countries such as Venezuela; our furnishing of products and services to nuclear power plant facilities; potential adverse consequences resulting from litigation to which we are a party, such as litigation involving asbestos-containing material claims; a foreign government investigation regarding our participation in the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program; expectations regarding acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses; our relative geographical profitability and its impact on our utilization of deferred tax assets, including foreign tax credits; the potential adverse impact of an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets; our dependence upon third-party suppliers whose failure to perform timely could adversely affect our business operations; the highly competitive nature of the markets in which we operate; environmental compliance costs and liabilities; potential work stoppages and other labor matters; our inability to protect our intellectual property in the U.S., as well as in foreign countries; obligations under our defined benefit pension plans; and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 


