FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20040511070108.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On May 11, 2004, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release reporting its financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. Such press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference. The press release contains certain non-GAAP financial information. The reconciliation of such non-GAAP financial information to GAAP financial measures is included in the press release. Further, the press release contains statements intended as "forward-looking statement" which are subject to the cautionary statement about forward-looking statements set forth therein.
     In accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8176, the information contained in such press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 11, 2004
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) reported solid earnings and robust cash flow for the first quarter of 2004, including net income of $30 million, or $0.30 per diluted share. Cash flow from operations was $350 million for the quarter.
MINNEAPOLIS (May 11, 2004)
"Favorable market conditions, including sustained high gas prices and manageable western coal prices, underpinned by solid operating performance across the portfolio resulted in strong first quarter financial results for NRG," said David Crane, NRG's President and Chief Executive Officer. "I am pleased that we stayed focused on execution while making the transition out of Chapter 11."
Financial Highlights
1
:
Operational Summary
NRG's strong financial results were supported by our facilities' excellent operational performance. Plant staff maintained focus on operating our plants enabling the Company to realize good margins in the energy market. All of the regions achieved an in-market availability ratethe measure of how frequently a unit is available when called on to operateof 95 percent or greater.
High gas prices throughout the first quarter led to higher energy prices, which helped to widen the energy revenue margin realized at NRG's baseload coal facilities in the Northeast region. Because the Company hedged over 90 percent of our estimated coal needs for 2004 prior to the recent rise in coal prices, we largely have been spared the volatility of the spot eastern coal market. In addition, NRG has reduced our dependence on eastern coal as we are converting some of our coal facilities in the Northeast to burn a blend of eastern and western coal. This conversion program is aimed at substantially reducing sulfur emissions from NRG's coal-fired plants.
1
 
The Company took advantage of the high gas price environment by hedging forward a portion of our northeastern coal-fired generation for the balance of 2004. In New York and New England, NRG has contracted sales for 500 megawatts (MW) of baseload coal generation for the remainder of the year. The Company also sold 700 MW (maximum) of load following capabilities as a part of the New Jersey Basic Generation Service auction and the Maryland Standard Offer Services Request for Proposal process.
During the first quarter, NRG took additional steps to stabilize our Connecticut portfolio. In mid-March FERC approved NRG's request to receive RMR payments retroactive to January 17, 2004 for certain of our Connecticut facilities. The RMR agreements cover Middletown, Montville, and Devon units 11-14. FERC also approved an extension of NRG's operating and maintenance expense cost tracker for these facilities and Norwalk Harbor. Previously, Devon 7 and 8 received FERC approval on a separate RMR agreement. However, the RMR agreement for Devon 8 has since expired and the unit will be retired, pursuant to a declaration by the New England Independent System Operator that the unit is no longer needed for reliability. These RMR agreements are expected to contribute up to $30 million in revenues per quarter subject to refund and will remain in place at least until the locational installed capacity (LICAP) market is implemented in New England.
"We've made significant progress with our Connecticut assets," said Crane. "In addition to the expiration of the cash negative Connecticut Light & Power contract, these RMR agreements will provide us with a recovery of our costs sufficient to keep these units available to support the reliability and integrity of the Connecticut electrical grid."
Liquidity and Cash Flow
Liquidity, as of March 31, 2004, remains healthy at almost $1.4 billion as set forth below:
Cash flow from operations remains strong at $350 million while net cash flow generated was $280 million.
2
 
NRG continues to make progress in divesting noncore assets. In the first quarter, NRG completed asset sales resulting in $3 million in cash proceeds. Subsequent to March 31, NRG has completed sales resulting in $94 million in cash proceeds. Additionally NRG has executed a purchase and sale agreement for our Batesville facility, which will further reduce debt by $292 million and contribute cash proceeds of $27 million.
California Dispute Resolution
In late April, West Coast Power, a 50/50 joint venture beneficially owned by NRG and Dynegy., reached a settlement with FERC, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, San Diego Gas and Electric Company, Southern California Edison, The California Department of Water Resources (CDWR), the California Electricity Oversight Board, the California Attorney General, and the California Public Utilities Commission. This settlement puts an end to a substantial portion of the litigation associated with the California crisis and should open the door for West Coast Power to negotiate or bid on new commercial arrangements to replace the CDWR contract when it expires on December 31, 2004. This settlement has no impact on the Company's financial position.
Management Appointments
NRG today announced a number of appointments that serve to flesh out the Company's management team. NRG named James Ingoldsby the Company's Vice President and Controller and Caroline Angoorly as Vice President, New Business.
In his role as Vice President and Controller, Ingoldsby directs NRG's financial accounting and reporting activities, as well as ensuring the Company's compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley legislation. Ingoldsby, who led the Sarbanes-Oxley implementation at chemical company Hercules, Inc. previously held various executive positions at General Electric Betz, formerly Betz Dearborn, including serving as Controller and Director of Business Analysis. Ingoldsby reports to Robert Flexon, NRG's Chief Financial Officer.
As Vice President, New Business, Angoorly will spearhead the Company's initiatives in the environmental arena, including renewables, new technologies, environmental remediation and compliance. She will also manage NRG's Resource Recovery business. Angoorly comes to NRG from Enel North America, Inc. where she served as Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to joining Enel in 2001, she served as the Director and Chief Financial Officer at Line56Media and from 1994 to 2000 she was a partner in the Global Finance Group at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy. Angoorly will report to David Crane.
Outlook
Notwithstanding our robust first quarter financial performance, NRG continues to operate our core business in an overbuilt and challenging wholesale power generation market. The structural change required to cause a general recovery in the commodity price cycle for electricity has yet to occur. Moreover, our business continues to be highly seasonal and weather dependent with the first and third quarters historically being the strongest. As such, our current focus is on ensuring that all of our plants achieve the highest possible level of availability for the summer peak season.
Earnings Conference Call
On May 11, NRG will host a conference call at 9 a.m. Eastern to discuss these results and present our longer-term business strategy. To access the live webcast and accompanying slide presentation,
3
 
log on to NRG's website at http://www.nrgenergy.com and click on "Investors." To participate in the call, dial 877.407.0727. International callers should dial 201.689.8035. Participants should dial in or log on approximately five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
The call will be available for replay shortly after completion of the live event on the "Investors" section of the NRG website.
About NRG
NRG Energy, Inc. owns and operates a diverse portfolio of power-generating facilities, primarily in the United States. Its operations include baseload, intermediate, peaking, and cogeneration facilities, thermal energy production and energy resource recovery facilities.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include, but are not limited to, expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets and related government regulation, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, our ability to convert facilities to burn western coal, our substantial indebtedness and the possibility that we may incur additional indebtedness, adverse results in current and future litigation, the willingness of counterparties to negotiate new contracts in California, and the amount of proceeds from asset sales.
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
More information on NRG is available at www.nrgenergy.com
Contacts:
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted net income and provides a reconciliation to GAAP net income/(loss), including per share amounts, for the periods indicated:
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss) for the periods indicated:
9
 
EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are non-GAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believe debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this press release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, Adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this presentation.
Similar to Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted net income represents net income adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. In addition, in evaluating Adjusted Net Income, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this presentation.
10


