FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20040107171244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 6, 2004 NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) provided supplemental information relating to distributions to its Class 5 (NRG Unsecured Claims) creditors, in particularly with respect to the results of the reallocation procedure as described in Article V of NRG's Plan of Reorganization and the anticipated timing of future distributions.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed with this report on Form 8-K:
Certain statements included in this Form 8-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the making of additional distributions and the receipt of additional proceeds from Xcel Energy. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct. Factors that could cause the results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements above include, among others, the possibility that NRG will not receive the additional payments from Xcel Energy, the possibility that NRG will not generally have adequate liquidity to make any payments or that it will not meet the liquidity thresholds necessary to make the additional distribution in October 2004.
The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K should not be construed as exhaustive. For more information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results, review NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 7, 2004

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NRG Energy, Inc. provides today supplemental information relating to distributions to its Class 5 (NRG Unsecured Claims) creditors, in particularly with respect to the results of the reallocation procedure as described in Article V of NRG's Plan of Reorganization and the anticipated timing of future distributions.
Minneapolis; January 06, 2004 
Distributions to Creditors in Class 5 Not Participating in the Reallocation Procedure.
On December 23, 2003, the following distributions were made to NRG's former creditors holding allowed claims in Class 5 who did not participate in the reallocation procedure.
Additionally, as provided for in NRG's Plan of Reorganization, the following cash distributions will be made:
 
Results of the Reallocation Procedure
The results of the reallocation procedure can be summarized as follows:
As an example, a creditor holding an allowed claim in Class 5 of $1,000.00 that participated in the reallocation procedure by electing to contribute 100 percent of its initial cash allocation to the reallocation pool will receive:
Likewise, a creditor holding an allowed claim in Class 5 of $1,000.00 that participated in the reallocation procedure by electing to exchange their new NRG common stock at a price of $22.25 per share, for example, would receive:
 
The following tables further display the distributions at different reallocation elections:
Recovery on an Allowed $1,000.00 Class 5 Claim Electing to Contribute Cash:
Recovery on an Allowed $1,000.00 Class 5 Claim Electing to Contribute Equity:
NRG Energy, Inc. owns and operates a diverse portfolio of power-generating facilities, primarily in the United States. Its operations include competitive energy production and cogeneration facilities, thermal energy production and energy resource recovery facilities.
Certain statements included in this news release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements above include, but are not limited to, the making of additional distributions and the receipt of additional proceeds from Xcel Energy. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct. Factors that could cause the results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements above include, among others, the possibility that NRG will not receive the additional payments from Xcel Energy, the possibility that NRG will not generally have adequate liquidity to make any payments or that it will not meet the liquidity thresholds necessary to make the additional distribution in October 2004.
The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should not be construed as exhaustive. For more information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results, review NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


