FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20051107063033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 7, 2005, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:
November 7, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported a net loss of ($26.9) million, or ($0.39) per diluted share for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 compared to net income of $54.2 million or $0.54 per diluted share for the same period last year. Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 totaled $19.6 million, or $0.07 per diluted share versus $167.5 million or $1.67 per diluted share. The decrease in the quarter and year-to-date results versus 2004 is primarily due to unrealized MtM accruals, which are economically neutral to the Company in that offsetting gains on underlying accrual positions will be recognized as power is delivered and the hedges settle (see Table1). The year-to-date results also include $51 million of non-cash expenses related to the reversal of 2004 MtM gains. These items were partially offset by the strong operating results from our Northeast assets due to higher energy prices and increased generation, the sale of surplus emission credits, and lower interest expense. Generation across the portfolio increased 17% as compared to the third quarter 2004, including a 42% increase in output from our Northeast region.
Princeton, NJ; (November 7, 2005)
"Our stronger commercial results were underpinned by an operating performance that improved during the quarter and was particularly strong among our oil and gas plants in the Northeast," said David Crane, NRG's President and Chief Executive Officer. "While the sharp increase in electricity prices in the forward market led to mark-to-market losses on our forward hedge positions, I am pleased that our commercial results improved significantly this quarter on a year-on-year basis."
Third Quarter and Year-to-Date 2005 Financial Highlights
Generation from our oil-fired and gas-fired assets increased significantly over 2004 and drove the overall Company's generation improvement. Our oil-fired assets increased their generation 327% and 129% for the quarter and year-to-date, respectively, while our New York City gas-fired assets increased 92% and 96% for the quarter and year-to-date, respectively. Financial results realized by our Northeast assets improved with higher energy margins due to the steep rise in natural gas and
1
 
power prices. Additionally, operating results for the quarter included $22 million of gains from emission credit sales, which represents a portion of our 2005 surplus position. Year-to-date debt repurchases of $645 million and the 2004 refinancing of our credit facility, drove interest expense lower versus last year by $20.3 million and $42.9 million for the quarter and year-to-date, respectively. These improvements were offset by higher purchased energy costs at South Central, changes to our asset portfolio due to the disposition of assets and expirations of contracts, and the unrealized MtM losses. Operating and maintenance expense was flat quarter over quarter and $27 million higher year-to-date due to an increased number of planned outages this year versus 2004.
The fuel and energy markets in which the Company transacts, at times experience significant volatility. During the first half of this year, the Company entered into financial transactions to lock in forward prices for a significant portion of its expected power generation for the balance of 2005 and calendar year 2006. While all of these transactions are economic hedges of the portfolio, 70% of our current portfolio of forward sales are afforded hedge accounting treatment. During the third quarter, the forward prices for power rose sharply along with the price movements of natural gas. As a result of prices rising above the levels at which the forward sales were put in place, the MtM for a portion of the hedges is recorded in operating results at September 30, 2005. Additionally, our hedging activity requires cash and letter of credit collateral support when prices rise above the hedged prices. Collateral supporting our trading activity was $759 million at September 30, 2005. The scheduled settlement of the underlying hedges and the reversal of the MtM losses to income and the return of collateral over the coming quarters are provided in Table 1.
Table 1: Estimated Roll-off Schedule of Domestic Unrealized Pretax (Losses) and Collateral as of September 30, 2005
For 2007 and beyond, we expect to utilize hedging strategies that are option-based with a goal of establishing a floor on earnings, leaving upside market participation, minimizing MtM swings and optimizing collateral support of our hedging program. For 2007, we already have locked in a floor on 30% of our projected on-peak coal generation at current forward prices while preserving the majority of the Company's ability to benefit from further upward movement in northeastern electricity prices.
"The coordinated transactions we recently entered into with respect to our 2007 position are indicative of the broader array of tools we intend to use to forward hedge our baseload assets while preserving the ability of those assets to benefit from the upside in commodity prices," said Crane.
2
 
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 2: Three Months Income from Continuing Operations before Taxes and Adjusted EBITDA by region
Table 3: Nine Months Income from Continuing Operations before Taxes and Adjusted EBITDA by region
Our New York City gas-fired assets and dual fuel-fired assets across the region were able to take advantage of higher average power prices, and improved spark and liquid spreads. Excluding the MtM losses of $172.4 million and $205.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005, respectively, this region showed a favorable increase versus 2004. This was due to a steep increase in power prices and a 42% increase in generation. With respect to 2006 and beyond, on November 1, 2005, the Company filed an application for the extension of the reliability-must-run status of its Middletown, Montville, and Devon (Connecticut) plants with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The Company expects FERC to act upon the application within 60 days.
Northeast:
3
 
Due to hotter than normal weather in the third quarter, coop and long term customer load demand was strong with 2.7 million megawatt hours delivered to customers, an increase of 9.5% over 2004. Consequently, South Central was required to purchase more energy to meet its contract load requirements. With on-peak power prices 85.7% higher coupled with increased demand and higher forced outage rates versus the third quarter of 2004, South Central incurred $58.4 million more in purchased energy costs. The quarter-on-quarter results also reflect the impact of third quarter 2004's mild weather, which generally provided favorable financial results for South Central.
South Central:
Generation was higher by 2.9% due to increased output from Playford and an outage in the third quarter of 2004. Higher maintenance cost at the Playford station, and lower pool prices this quarter versus the third quarter of 2004 offset this increase. For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, the region experienced unseasonably mild weather and weak pool prices in the first quarter which drove the unfavorable results versus last year. Higher generation helped offset weak pool prices, with generation increasing 5.0% over generation levels from the first nine months of 2004.
Australia:
Lower results are primarily attributable to the expirations at the end of 2004 of the California Department of Water Resources (CDWR) contract and the Red Bluff RMR agreement. With respect to 2006, WCP has been notified by the California Independent System Operator (CAISO) that effective January 1, 2006, Encina unit 4 and El Segundo units 3 and 4 will not be relisted as RMR qualifying facilities. A tolling agreement for the total capacity of the El Segundo plant has been executed with a major load serving entity for the period May 2006 through April 2008. With the loss of RMR designation, the CAISO no longer has the right to call on the facility as a reliability resource. The Red Bluff and Chowchilla facilities have received capacity contracts for the period April 1, 2006 through December 31, 2007.
Western:
Liquidity at September 30, 2005 decreased 44% and 56% from June 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. The decreases were primarily attributable to:
Liquidity and Capital Resources
These declines were partially offset by the issuance of $250 million of perpetual preferred shares and $105.2 million of asset sale proceeds and cash flow from operations.
Table 4: Corporate Liquidity
4
 
Texas Genco Transaction:
As previously announced, on September 30, 2005, we entered into an agreement to purchase Texas Genco for a total purchase price of approximately $5.8 billion for the stock of Texas Genco which includes the assumption by the Company of approximately $2.5 billion of indebtedness. The Company expects to finance the acquisition and refinance the $2.5 billion in debt assumed in the acquisition through a combination of a new senior secured credit facility, an unsecured high yield notes offering and the sale of common and preferred equity securities in the public markets.
Since announcing the planned acquisition of Texas Genco, the Company and Texas Genco filed an application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission seeking consent to the indirect transfer of control of Texas Genco's 44% ownership interest in the South Texas Nuclear Project. Applications for approval of the acquisition also have been filed with FERC in accordance with Federal Power Act, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the Public Utility Commission of Texas has been notified. The Company continues to work toward a first quarter 2006 transaction close date.
Outlook
The Company expects the high and volatile commodity price environment that has existed over the past several months as the direct or indirect result of extreme weather, production disruptions in the Gulf of Mexico and the general tightening of the supply-demand balance for wholesale electricity across all of our domestic regions to persist for the balance of 2005 and into 2006. As a result of the generally projected positive impact of these external factors on the unhedged portion of our domestic portfolio, and our success in achieving our 2005 internal financial objectives from NRG, we are increasing our full-year 2005 guidance for adjusted EBITDA (excluding MtM) from $633 million to $700 million. In addition, due to the impact of the $426 million in collateral postings during the third quarter, we are modifying our full-year 2005 cash flow from operations guidance from $419 million to $109 million (see Table 5).
FOR
Table 5: 2005 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA Guidance ($ in million)
Earnings Conference Call
On November 7, 2005, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. To access the live webcast and accompanying slide presentation, log on to NRG's website at and click on "Investors." To participate in the call, dial 877.407.8035. International callers should dial 201.689.8035. Participants should dial in or log on approximately five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
http://www.nrgenergy.com
5
 
The call will be available for replay shortly after completion of the live event on the "Investors" section of the NRG website.
About NRG
NRG Energy, Inc. owns and operates a diverse portfolio of power-generating facilities, primarily in the Northeast, South Central and Western regions of the United States. Its operations include baseload, intermediate, peaking, and cogeneration facilities, thermal energy production and energy resource recovery facilities. NRG also has ownership interests in international generating facilities in Australia and Germany.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include, but are not limited to, expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, expected benefits, results and timing of the Texas Genco acquisition, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets and related government regulation, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, our ability to convert facilities to use western coal successfully, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and company-wide processes and the timing of and the ability to complete the Texas Genco acquisition and failure to realize expected benefits of the acquisition.
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance is an estimate as of today's date, November 7, 2005 and is based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
More information on NRG is available at www.nrgenergy.com
Contacts:
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
Appendix Table A-1: Adjusted Net Income Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted net income and provides a reconciliation to GAAP net income/(loss), including per share amounts.
Note: Diluted EPS in 2005 is after adjusting for preferred stock dividends
Appendix Table A-2: Adjusted Net Income Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted net income and provides a reconciliation to GAAP net income/(loss), including per share amounts.
Note: Diluted EPS in 2005 is after adjusting for preferred stock dividends
10
 
Appendix Table A-3: Three Month EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
Appendix Table A-4: Nine Month EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
11
 
Appendix Table A-5: Net Debt to Capital Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of Net Debt to Capital:
Appendix Table A-6: Third Quarter 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
12
 
Appendix Table A-7: Third Quarter 2004 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
Appendix Table A-8: Nine Months 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
Appendix Table A-9: Nine Months 2004 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
13
 
EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are nonGAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, Adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
14
 
Similar to Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted net income represents net income adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. In addition, in evaluating adjusted net income, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
15


