FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20050809065236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 9, 2005, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported net income for the quarter ended June 30, 2005 of $23.9 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, including $0.7 million or $0.01 per diluted share related to discontinued operations. This compares with net income of $83.0 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, in the same period in 2004, which included $13.6 million or $0.14 per diluted share related to discontinued operations. For the six months ended June 30, 2005, NRG reported net income of $46.5 million, or $0.43 per diluted share including $0.7 million or $0.01 per diluted share related to discontinued operations. This compares with $113.3 million or $1.13 per diluted share in 2004, which included income of $12.4 million or $0.12 per diluted share related to discontinued operations.
Princeton, NJ; (August 9, 2005)
Lower net income, primarily from West Coast Power (WCP), asset sales and reduced generation due to outages were partially offset by reduced interest expenses and a lower effective tax rate. The second quarter of 2004 included a $38.5 million pretax Connecticut Light & Power (CL&P) settlement gain. Mark-to-market charges associated with our hedging activity included a $5.1 million gain and a $33.1 million loss, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005. The year-to-date results were also affected by approximately $60 million of mark-to-market gains related to forward electricity sales in the Northeast that were recorded at the end of 2004, approximately $51 million settled through June 30, 2005.
"While certain of our assets, such as our New York City plants, were called upon and performed at record levels, outages at several of our coal-fired units impacted our quarterly results," commented David Crane, NRG President and Chief Executive Officer. "This quarter's operating result illustrates the timeliness and importance of our business improvement program, NRG, announced last quarter."
F.O.R.
NRG has committed to repurchase, on August 11, 2005, $250 million of the Company's outstanding common stock from an affiliate of Credit Suisse First Boston LLC (CSFB). The Company will fund the planned repurchase with existing cash balances. To enable this share repurchase under the Company's high yield debt indenture, the Company will issue simultaneously in a private transaction, $250 million of perpetual preferred stock. The cash proceeds from the preferred issuance will be used to repurchase approximately $229 million of our 8% high yield notes at 108% of par which will bring the total amount of our 8% notes redeemed during 2005 to $645 million.
Accelerated Share Repurchase Program
"This accelerated share repurchase and the partial redemption of our 8% notes are both part of our continuing capital allocation program and underscore our commitment to the efficient deployment of capital," said Crane. "While we expect over time to reinvest the lion's share of our capital in enhancing our asset portfolio, NRG's exceptional balance sheet strength and liquidity combined with
1
 
our projected free cash flow generation has caused us to conclude that, at this time, using a portion of our retained cash to repurchase our shares and bonds is a prudent and efficient use of capital."
Second Quarter and Year-to-Date 2005 Highlights
Revenues were flat for three and six months ended June 30, 2005 versus last year because of higher merchant revenues attributed to the increased generation from our New York City assets and to a lesser extent from our NEPOOL assets during 2005. These were offset by lower capacity revenues due to the 2004 sale of Kendall, the absence of the Connecticut Light & Power $38.5 million pretax settlement recognized in second quarter 2004 and $33.1 million of year-to-date mark-to-market losses.
The cost of energy was 33% and 27% higher, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005 versus 2004 levels primarily due to increased generation from our oil and gas-fired units. In addition, purchased power costs at our South Central operations increased to meet contract load obligations during its outages.
Operating and maintenance costs for three and six months ended June 30, 2005 increased over the comparable period in 2004 by $10.5 million and $20.0 million, respectively, due to an increase in major maintenance projects and more extensive outages in 2005 as compared to 2004. A portion of these incremental costs are the result of low-sulfur coal conversions of our eastern coal plants, which are a focus for much of the major maintenance and environmental capital expenditures in 2005.
Lower interest expense, higher other income, and lower income taxes partially offset the reduced operating income driven by the above described results. Interest expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005 was $50.6 million and $106.6 million, respectively, down from $66.2 and $129.0 million, respectively, for the comparable period in 2004 due to the sale of Kendall in the fourth quarter of 2004, the refinancing of our senior debt facility in December 2004, the $415.8 million redemption and purchases of our 8% notes during the first quarter, and the $57.2 million refinancing and prepayment of a portion of our Flinders project level debt in Australia during the six months ended June 30, 2005.
2
 
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 1: Three Months Income from Continuing Operations before Taxes and Adjusted EBITDA by region
Table 2: Six Months Income from Continuing Operations before Taxes and Adjusted EBITDA by region
Our New York City, and to a lesser extent, our NEPOOL assets were able to take advantage of higher average power prices, and improving spark and dark spreads, resulting from approximately 14% higher gas prices than in 2004. These spread improvements were offset by compressed margins from oil-fired plants and reduced generation output from our Huntley and Indian River assets due to increased outages versus 2004. Due to planned and unplanned outages, major maintenance expenses were higher by $8.6 and $14.6 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005, respectively, versus 2004. Finally, we recorded a mark-to-market gain of $5.1
Northeast:
3
 
million and $33.1 million loss for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005, respectively, related to forward sales not receiving hedge accounting treatment.
Total generation from the South Central assets decreased by 18% and 5%, respectively, for three and six months ended June 30, 2005, due to both planned and unplanned outages. To meet contract load requirements, the South Central region had to purchase energy at prices higher than its generation costs. A planned outage during the first half of 2005 also contributed to $7.9 million of higher major maintenance costs versus the same period last year.
South Central:
Income from continuing operations before taxes results improved for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005, driven by increased generation at Flinders due to the start of full commercial operation of the Playford station during the first quarter 2005 and a planned outage that occurred in the second quarter of 2004. Adjusted EBITDA for the three months was up versus the prior year due to higher generation and stronger exchange rates and pool prices. However, an extremely mild summer significantly depressed pool prices during the first quarter 2005, affecting overall six month results.
Australia:
In the aggregate, income from continuing operations before taxes and adjusted EBITDA results decreased for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2005 from 2004 primarily due to a series of portfolio changes:
Western, Other North America, International and Other:
Liquidity remained strong at $1.2 billion, as of June 30, 2005, even after the Company paid down $473.0 million in debt during the first and second quarter. This cash outflow was partially offset by the first quarter 2005 collection of the $71 million TermoRio arbitration award, an April 2005 $50 million dividend distribution from WCP, the $64.6 million in Enfield sale proceeds and cash from operations.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table 3: Corporate Liquidity
4
 
The Company continuously monitors its capital structure, liquidity, and cash flow and has been assessing for several months how to optimize the utilization of its current cash resources. The planned capital transaction is designed to provide a cost effective return of capital to shareholders, with certainty of execution, while preserving the Company's flexibility for future capital allocation decisions. Upon completion of this transaction, the Company's net debt to total capital remains at approximately 47%, the lower end of our targeted range.
Capital Allocation
On August 8, the Company executed a commitment to sell to CSFB, in a private placement, $250 million in new 3.625% perpetual preferred stock. The preferred stock may be settled at the option of CSFB or the Company during a 90 day period commencing August 11, 2015. Upon settlement, NRG will pay CSFB $250 million in cash to redeem the preferred stock. If the market value of the underlying NRG common shares is in excess of 150% of the August 10, 2005 issuance price, NRG will pay CSFB the net difference in cash or shares at settlement. If the Company's common share price is lower at settlement than the issuance price, CSFB will pay NRG the net difference in cash or shares. Only common shares equal to the value of the security in excess of 150% of the issuance price will be included in the earnings per share dilution calculation.
Issuing the preferred stock also gives NRG the capacity under our debt instruments to use existing cash to fund the accelerated share repurchase program announced today. Under the terms of the accelerated share repurchase agreement with CSFB, NRG will have fixed its price risk under the program at 97%-103% of the common share price at execution. NRG's outstanding shares will decrease by the full amount repurchased on August 11, 2005 based on NRG's August 10, 2005 closing price.
NRG During the first quarter earnings call, NRG announced NRG, a comprehensive cost and margin improvement program consisting of a large number of asset, portfolio and headquarters-specific initiatives being implemented over the short-to-medium term. Our improvement plan will contribute $100 million annually by the end of 2008, and $30 million in benefits are expected in 2005. Approximately $18 million of benefits were achieved during the second quarter.
Focus on Return on Invested Capital at NRG
(
F.O.R.
)
F.O.R.
We currently have approximately 85 projects that are either scheduled for implementation or are under technical and financial evaluation. Currently we have over 20 projects in active implementation as part of NRG.
F.O.R.
In the third quarter, as it has progressed to date, the Company has benefited from a strong energy price environment created by favorable weather conditions across our Northeast region. While our baseload coal plants were substantially contracted going into the quarter, our entire fleet of plants have performed well during the hot weather periods enabling us to derive incremental benefit from the strong spot pricing environment. As the recent weather-driven pricing environment contains significant risks as well as significant opportunity for our heavily-contracted portfolio, we are not modifying our previous 2005 adjusted EBITDA guidance of $600 million. Net cash provided by operating activities is expected to be $419 million and reflects increased collateral requirements.
Outlook
5
 
The Company's adjusted EBITDA guidance of $600 million (see Table A-10) includes approximately $33.1 million of mark-to-market losses through June 30, 2005, which have been substantially offset by the NRG corporate initiatives.
F.O.R.
This guidance excludes unusual or nonrecurring events and assumes normal weather patterns in our core regions for the balance of the year. The gross margin associated with this EBITDA estimate is substantially hedged in terms of downside protection while the Company retains the potential to benefit from extreme weather events, locational supply-demand imbalances, and gas price spikes through its dual fuel-fired peaking units.
On August 9, 2005, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. To access the live webcast and accompanying slide presentation, log on to NRG's website at and click on "Investors." To participate in the call, dial 877.407.8035. International callers should dial 201.689.8035. Participants should dial in or log on approximately five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
Earnings Conference Call
http://www.nrgenergy.com
The call will be available for replay shortly after completion of the live event on the "Investors" section of the NRG website.
NRG Energy, Inc. owns and operates a diverse portfolio of power-generating facilities, primarily in the Northeast, South Central and West Coast regions of the United States. Its operations include baseload, intermediate, peaking, and cogeneration facilities, thermal energy production and energy resource recovery facilities. NRG also has ownership interests in international generating facilities in Australia and Germany.
About NRG
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include, but are not limited to, expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, expected benefits and results of capital allocation initiatives, expected benefits and EBITDA improvements of the NRG initiative and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets and related government regulation, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, our ability to convert facilities to use western coal successfully, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and company-wide processes and the ability to complete the accelerated share repurchase program and preferred stock issuance.
F.O.R.
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance is an estimate as of today's date, August 9, 2005 and is based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual
6
 
results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
More information on NRG is available at www.nrgenergy.com
Contacts:
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
Appendix Table A-1: Adjusted Net Income Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted net income and provides a reconciliation to GAAP net income/(loss), including per share amounts.
Appendix Table A-2: Adjusted Net Income Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted net income and provides a reconciliation to GAAP net income/(loss), including per share amounts.
Appendix Table A-3: Three Month EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
11
 
Appendix Table A-4: Six Month EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
12
 
Appendix Table A-5: Net Debt to Capital Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of Net Debt to Capital:
Appendix Table A-6: Second Quarter 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
13
 
Appendix Table A-7: Second Quarter 2004 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
Appendix Table A-8: Six Months 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
14
 
Appendix Table A-9: Six Months 2004 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
Appendix Table A-10: Forecasted EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to forecasted cash flow from operations:
EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are nonGAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
     EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating
15
 
performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, Adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
Similar to Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted net income represents net income adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. In addition, in evaluating adjusted net income, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
16


