FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20051012171904.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01.
Other Events.
     As previously disclosed, on September 30, 2005 NRG Energy, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an Acquisition Agreement (the "Acquisition Agreement") with Texas Genco LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Texas Genco"), and each of the direct and indirect owners of Texas Genco providing for the acquisition by the Company of all of the outstanding equity interests in Texas Genco on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein (the "Acquisition"). As more fully described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 3, 2005, in connection with the execution of the Acquisition Agreement, the Company received a Commitment Letter from Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. ("Citigroup") to provide the Company with up to $4.8 billion in senior secured debt financing required to consummate the Acquisition, including up to $3.2 billion under a senior first priority term loan facility, up to $600 million under a senior first priority secured revolving credit facility and up to $1 billion under a senior first priority secured synthetic letter of credit facility. The Commitment Letter further provides for up to $5.1 billion in bridge financing to fund all amounts required to consummate the Acquisition which are not provided for under the senior secured debt financing.
     This description of the Commitment Letter is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Commitment Letter, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
September 30, 2005
NRG Energy, Inc. 211 Carnegie Center Princeton, New Jersey 08540
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We are pleased to confirm the arrangements under which (a) each of Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. ("") and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. ("") on behalf of Citigroup (as defined below and together with MSSF, the "") is exclusively authorized by NRG Energy, Inc. ("" or ""), to act as a joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner (with MSSF having "left side" designation as global coordinator and physical bookrunner status) in connection with the Senior Facilities (as defined below) and the Bridge Loans (as defined below), and (b) each of MSSF and Citigroup is exclusively authorized to provide, on a several basis, a portion of the financing for certain transactions described herein, in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this letter and the attached Annexes A, B, C and D hereto (collectively, the ""). The term "" refers to MSSF and Citigroup, collectively. In connection with the foregoing, (a) MSSF shall be the sole administrative agent in connection with the Senior Facilities and the sole administrative agent in connection with the Bridge Loans, and (b) Citigroup shall be the sole syndication agent in connection with the Senior Facilities and the sole syndication agent in connection with the Bridge Loans. MSSF and Citigroup shall each be a co-documentation agent in connection with the Senior Facilities. It is understood and agreed that (a) no additional agents, co-agents, arrangers, co-arrangers, managers or co-managers will be appointed and no other titles will be awarded in connection with the Facilities (defined below) without the approval of each Arranger and (b) no compensation (other than as expressly contemplated by this Commitment Letter, the Term Sheets attached as Annexes B and C or the Fee Letters referred to below) will be paid in connection with the syndication of the Facilities unless you and each Arranger so agree. For purposes of this Commitment Letter, "Citigroup" means CGMI, Citibank, N.A., Citicorp USA, Inc., Citicorp North America, Inc. and/or any of their affiliates as may be appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated herein.
MSSF
CGMI
Initial Lenders
NRG
you
Commitment Letter
Arrangers
You have informed us that NRG or a newly formed subsidiary of NRG will purchase (a) 82% of the outstanding equity interests of Texas Genco LLC ("") directly from certain sellers (the "")
Target
Sellers
 
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. September 30, 2005 Page 2
and (b) all of the issued outstanding shares of certain corporations affiliated with the Sellers that hold the remaining 18% of the outstanding equity interests of Target (the ""). As consideration for such purchase, you have informed us that you will pay cash and stock (preferred and/or common) consideration in connection with the Acquisition.
Acquisition
You have also informed us that the total cash cost of the Acquisition (including costs and expenses) and related working capital requirements of NRG after consummation of the Acquisition will be financed with:
The proceeds of the Term Facility and the Capital Markets Transactions (and/or any Bridge Loans) will be used to fund the cash portion of the Acquisition, the related refinancing transactions and related fees and expenses. The stock portion of the Acquisition consideration will consist of common stock of NRG and, under the circumstances set forth in the Acquisition Agreement (as defined below) perpetual preferred stock of NRG (the "") having the terms set forth in the definitive documentation for the Acquisition (as in effect on the date hereof, the ""). Amounts available under the Revolving Facility, which shall be undrawn (except to the extent provided in Annex B) on the Closing Date (as defined in Annex B), will be used for ongoing working capital requirements of NRG following the Acquisition and for general corporate purposes. Amounts available
Perpetual Preferred
Acquisition Agreement
 
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. September 30, 2005 Page 3
under the LC Facility will be used to provide credit support for Commodity Hedging Arrangements and power purchase agreements.
On the terms and subject to the conditions contained in this Commitment Letter:
In addition, on the terms and subject to the conditions contained in this Commitment Letter, (a) MSSF is pleased to commit to provide NRG with 50.0% of each Senior Facility and 50.0% of the Bridge Loans, and (b) Citigroup is pleased to commit to provide NRG with 50.0% of each Senior Facility and 50.0% of the Bridge Loans. The fees for services related to the Facilities are set forth in a separate fee letter (the "") among NRG, MSSF, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (""), Citicorp North America, Inc. ("") and CGMI dated the date hereof. In addition, pursuant to an engagement letter (the ""), dated the date hereof, among NRG, MSSF, Morgan Stanley, CNAI and CGMI, NRG has, among other things, offered each of Morgan Stanley and CGMI the right to act as a exclusive joint placement agents, exclusive joint bookrunners, exclusive joint initial purchasers or exclusive joint underwriters in connection with the Capital Markets Transactions.
Fee Letter
Morgan Stanley
CNAI
Engagement Letter
Each Initial Lender's commitment is subject to the following conditions:
 
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. September 30, 2005 Page 4
 
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. September 30, 2005 Page 5
partner or similar relationships, or any loss of employees), and (6) changes or developments in financial or securities markets or the economy in general, shall, in each case, be excluded from such determination to the extent, in the case of clauses (1) through (6), any such laws, changes and developments do not have a disproportionate adverse effect on NRG, Target and their respective subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as compared to other entities engaged in the power generation business in any of the relevant geographic areas with respect to such laws, changes or developments, as applicable (a ""), and
Combined Company MAC
In interpreting the definition of "Target MAC" and "Combined Company MAC" with respect to plant outages, the parties agree that the effect of the unplanned plant outages at Target and its subsidiaries from August 31, 2002 to the date of the Acquisition Agreement did not in and of themselves constitute a "Target MAC" or "Combined Company MAC" after taking into account all relevant facts and circumstances. Each Initial Lender's commitment is also subject to the satisfactory negotiation, execution and delivery of appropriate loan documents relating to the Facilities including, without limitation, a credit agreement, a bridge loan agreement, guaranties, security agreements, pledge agreements, real property security agreements, opinions of counsel and other related definitive documents (collectively, the "") incorporating and substantially consistent with the terms set forth in this Commitment Letter and otherwise reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to such Initial Lender and you. Each Initial Lender's commitment is also conditioned upon and made subject to (a) our not becoming aware after the date hereof of any new information not previously disclosed to us relating to Target or NRG, the Acquisition or the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter that is inconsistent in a material and adverse manner relative to the information disclosed to us prior to the date hereof, in each case such that it would reflect a Target MAC or a Combined Company MAC and (b) the accuracy of the representations made on the date of this Commitment Letter in the fifth succeeding paragraph below. Notwithstanding anything in this Commitment Letter, the Term Sheets attached hereto, the Fee Letter, the Loan Documents or any other letter agreement or other undertaking concerning the financing of the Acquisition to the contrary, (i) the only representations relating to NRG, Target and their respective businesses, the making of which shall be a condition to availability of the Facilities on the Closing Date shall be (A) such representations made in the Acquisition Agreement by Target as are material to the interests of the Lenders, but only to the extent that NRG has the right to terminate its obligations under the Acquisition Agreement as a result of a breach of such representations in the Acquisition Agreement and (B) the Specified Representations (as defined below) and (ii) the terms of the Loan Documents shall be in a form such that they do not impair availability of the Facilities on the Closing Date if the conditions set forth herein and in the Term Sheets attached hereto are satisfied (it being understood that, to the extent any guarantee or collateral is not provided on the Closing Date after your use of commercially reasonable efforts to do so, the delivery of such guarantee or collateral shall not constitute a condition precedent to the availability of the Facilities on the Closing Date but shall be required to be delivered after the Closing Date pursuant to arrangements to be mutually agreed). For purposes hereof, the "" means the representations and warranties of NRG set forth in the term sheets attached
Loan Documents
Specified Representations
 
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. September 30, 2005 Page 6
as Annexes B and C relating to corporate power and authority, the enforceability of the Loan Documents, Federal Reserve Margin Regulations, the Investment Company Act of 1940, NRG financial statements and the status of the Senior Facilities as senior debt.
The Arrangers intend and reserve the right to syndicate the Facilities to the Lenders (as defined in Annexes B and C). The Arrangers shall select the Lenders after consultation with NRG, and the Arrangers will lead the syndication, including determining the timing of all offers to potential Lenders, any title of agent or similar designations awarded to any Lender and the acceptance of commitments, the amounts offered and the compensation provided to each Lender. The Arrangers will determine the final commitment allocations after consultation with NRG. NRG agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the Arrangers' syndication efforts benefit from the existing lending relationships of NRG, Target and their respective subsidiaries. In addition, each Initial Lender's commitment hereunder will be subject to such Initial Lender's reasonable satisfaction that, until (a) the Bridge Loans, if any, are repaid in full or automatically converted into a Term Loan and (b) the earlier of (i) the date that is 180 days following the funding of the Senior Facilities or (ii) the date on which the Successful Syndication of the Senior Facilities occurs, there shall be no other debt facility or debt security of NRG or its subsidiaries or Target or its subsidiaries or affiliates syndicated, issued or publicly announced (other than (a) the Facilities, (b) the other indebtedness contemplated hereby and (c) non-recourse project subsidiary indebtedness incurred to finance the expansion of NRG's facility known as "Big Cajun" if such indebtedness is either (i) evidenced by a note that is placed with an institutional investor and rated no less than BB by Standard & Poor's Rating Services and no less than Ba2 by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. or (ii) evidenced by bank loans syndicated only to commercial banks and not to institutional investors) to the extent that such financing could have a material adverse effect on the syndication of any of the Facilities, without the prior written consent of the Arrangers, which will not be unreasonably withheld.
NRG agrees to cooperate with the Arrangers, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause Target to cooperate with the Arrangers, in connection with (a) the preparation of an information package regarding the business, operations, financial projections and prospects of Target including, without limitation, the delivery of all information relating to the transactions contemplated hereunder prepared by or on behalf of Target or NRG deemed reasonably necessary by the Arrangers to complete the syndication of the Facilities and (b) the presentation of an information package reasonably acceptable in format and content to the Arrangers in bank meetings and other communications with prospective Lenders in connection with the syndication of the Facilities. NRG shall be solely responsible for the information provided by NRG contained in any information package and presentation and acknowledges that the Arrangers will be using and relying upon such information without independent verification thereof. NRG agrees that information regarding the Facilities and information provided by NRG or its representatives to the Arrangers in connection with the Facilities (including, without limitation, draft and execution versions of the Loan Documents, publicly filed financial statements and draft or final offering materials relating to contemporaneous securities issuances by NRG) may be disseminated to potential Lenders and other persons through one or more internet sites (including an IntraLinks workspace) created for purposes of syndicating the Facilities or otherwise, in accordance with the Arrangers' standard syndication practices (including hard copy and via electronic transmissions), provided that such potential Lenders and such other persons shall have agreed to customary confidentiality arrangements required by any such workspace. Without limiting the foregoing, NRG will authorize, and will use commercially
 
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. September 30, 2005 Page 7
reasonable efforts to cause Target to authorize, the use of their respective logos in connection with any such dissemination.
At the request of any of the Arrangers, NRG agrees to assist the Arrangers in preparing a version of the information package and presentation that does not contain material non-public information concerning NRG or Target, their respective affiliates or their securities and to assist the Arrangers in identifying non-public information concerning NRG or Target, their respective affiliates or their securities.
NRG, to the best of its knowledge based on its review and analysis, represents and warrants that (a) all written information (other than financial projections) that has been or will thereafter be made available by it or any of its affiliates, representatives or advisors to any of the Arrangers or the Lenders in connection with the transactions contemplated hereunder (supplemented as contemplated below) does not (or will not, as the case may be) contain, when taken as a whole, any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which such statements were or are made, and (b) the financial projections, if any, concerning NRG and its subsidiaries and the transactions contemplated hereunder that have been or will be made available to any of the Arrangers or the Lenders for their use in connection with the Senior Facilities have been or will be prepared in good faith based upon assumptions that are believed by the preparer thereof to be reasonable at the time made (it being understood that such projections are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond NRG's control, and that no assurance can be given that any particular projection will be realized). If at any time prior to the Closing Date any of the representations contained in the preceding sentence would be incorrect in any material respect if the information or projections were being furnished and such representations were being made at such time, then NRG agrees to supplement the information and the projections so that such representations will be correct in all material respects under those circumstances. NRG acknowledges that the Arrangers will be using and relying upon the accuracy of the information and projections described in the first sentence of this paragraph delivered to the Arrangers without independent verification thereof.
NRG acknowledges that (a) each of MSSF and Citigroup is acting pursuant to a contractual relationship as an independent contractor in connection with its engagement hereunder and not in any other capacity including as a fiduciary; (b) it is not relying on the advice of MSSF or Citigroup for legal, regulatory, financial, accounting, tax or investment matters, but instead NRG is seeking and will rely on the advice of its own professionals and advisors for such matters; (c) it will make its own independent analysis and decision regarding the transactions contemplated hereby and the pricing and valuation thereof based on the advice from its own professionals and advisors; (d) it will determine, without reliance upon MSSF or Citigroup, the economic risks and merits as well as the legal, regulatory, tax and accounting characterizations and consequences of the transaction contemplated hereby and all transactions thereunder and it will be capable of assuming such risks; and (e) neither MSSF nor Citigroup has made, nor will either make, any recommendations, guarantees or representations regarding the expected or projected success, performance, result, consequence or benefit (whether legal, regulatory, tax, financial, accounting or otherwise) of the transaction contemplated hereby. Nothing herein shall give rise to any liability or responsibility on the part of MSSF or Citigroup for the success or anticipated benefits of the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. September 30, 2005 Page 8
In connection with arrangements such as this, it is our firms' policy to receive indemnification. NRG agrees to the provisions with respect to our indemnity and other matters set forth in Annex A, which is incorporated by reference into this Commitment Letter.
Each of MSSF and Citigroup hereby notifies NRG and Target that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it, and each Lender, may be required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies NRG and Target, which information includes the name and address of NRG and Target and other information that will allow each of MSSF and Citigroup and each Lender to identify NRG and Target in accordance with the Act. This notice is given in accordance with the requirements of the Act and is effective for each of MSSF and Citigroup and each Lender.
Act
Please note that this Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters and any written or oral advice provided by any of the Arrangers in connection with this arrangement are (a) exclusively for the benefit of NRG and may not be relied upon by any other person or entity, and (b) may not be disclosed to any third party or circulated or referred to publicly without our prior written consent except, after providing written notice to the Arrangers, as required by law or compulsory legal process. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we hereby consent to your disclosure of (i) this Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters and such advice to NRG's officers, directors, employees, accountants, attorneys, agents and other advisors who are involved in the consideration of the Facilities to the extent such persons are obligated to hold the same in confidence, (ii) this Commitment Letter or the information contained herein (but not the Fee Letters or the information contained therein) to the Sellers, Target to the extent you notify or instruct such persons to keep such material confidential, and to the Sellers' and Target's respective equity holders, officers, directors, employees, accountants, attorneys, agents and other advisors who are directly involved in the consideration of the Facilities to the extent you notify or instruct such persons to hold the same in confidence and (iii) this Commitment Letter or the Engagement Letter or the information contained herein in any public record in which it is required by law to be filed.
Each of the Arrangers and Initial Lenders shall use all confidential information provided to such person by or on behalf of NRG, Target or any of their respective subsidiaries solely for the purpose of providing the services that are the subject of this Commitment Letter and shall treat all such confidential information confidentially and shall not disclose to any other party, except after notice to NRG or Target, as applicable, as required by law or compulsory legal process. NRG hereby consents to disclosure of such information to the officers, directors, employees, legal advisors, agents and advisors of the Arrangers and the Initial Lenders who are directly involved in the matters related to this Commitment Letter to the extent the applicable Arranger or Initial Lender notifies such persons of their obligations to keep such material confidential.
As you know, each Lender is a full service securities firm and as such may from time to time effect transactions for its own account or the account of customers, and hold positions in securities or options on securities of NRG and other companies that may be the subject of this arrangement. NRG acknowledges that the Lenders and their respective affiliates may provide financing, equity capital, financial advisory and/or other services to parties whose interests may conflict with NRG's interests. You acknowledge that the Lenders and their affiliates may be providing debt financing, equity capital or other services
 
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. September 30, 2005 Page 9
(including financial advisory services) to other companies in respect of which you may have conflicting interests regarding the transactions described herein and otherwise. Neither the Lenders nor any of their affiliates will use confidential information obtained from you by virtue of the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter or the Lenders' other relationships with you in connection with the performance by us of services for other companies, and we will not furnish any such information to other companies. You also acknowledge that neither the Lenders nor any of their affiliates has any obligation to use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter, or to furnish to you, confidential information obtained by us from other companies.
The commitment of each Initial Lender hereunder will terminate upon the first to occur of (a) the consummation of the Acquisition, (b) the abandonment or termination of the Acquisition Agreement, and (c) the date that is nine months from the signing of the Acquisition Agreement (provided that such date shall be extended for an additional 90 days if, (i) the conditions set forth in Section 7.1(c) of the Acquisition Agreement have not been satisfied and (ii) all other conditions to consummation of the Acquisition set forth in the Acquisition Agreement are satisfied or capable of then being satisfied (other than the condition in Section 7.1(c) of the Acquisition Agreement) (such date, as extended, the ""), unless the closing of each of (A) the Senior Facilities and (B) the Capital Markets Transactions and/or the Bridge Loans, as applicable, on the terms and subject to the conditions contained herein, shall have been consummated on or before such date. In addition, each Initial Lender's commitment hereunder to extend Bridge Loans will terminate upon the closing of the Capital Markets Transactions (in escrow or otherwise) yielding gross proceeds to NRG of at least $5,100 million.
Termination Date
The compensation, reimbursement, indemnification and confidentiality provisions contained herein, in Annex A hereto and in the Fee Letter shall remain in full force and effect regardless of whether definitive financing documentation shall be executed and delivered and notwithstanding the termination of this Commitment Letter or the Arrangers' commitment hereunder; that your obligations under this Commitment Letter, other than those relating to confidentiality and to the syndication of the Facilities, shall automatically terminate and be superseded by the definitive documentation relating to the Facilities upon the initial funding thereunder, and you shall be released from all liability in connection therewith at such time.
provided
In addition, please note that MSSF, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, CGMI and their respective affiliates do not provide accounting, tax or legal advice.
This Commitment Letter may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when executed shall be an original, and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Commitment Letter by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof. This Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters and the Engagement Letter are the only agreements that have been entered into among the parties hereto with respect to the Facilities and set forth the entire understanding of the parties with respect thereto and supersede any prior written or oral agreements among the parties hereto with respect to the Facilities.
This Commitment Letter and the Fee Letters supersede and replace any prior understanding or agreement concerning the subject matter hereof.
 
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. September 30, 2005 Page 10
Any right to trial by jury with respect to any action or proceeding arising in connection with or as a result of either this arrangement or any matter referred to in the Letters is hereby waived by the parties hereto. Each of the parties to the Commitment Letter agrees that any suit or proceeding arising in respect to this agreement will be tried exclusively in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York or, if that court does not have subject matter jurisdiction, in any state court located in the City of New York, and NRG agrees to submit to the jurisdiction of, and to venue in, such courts. This Commitment Letter shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
Please confirm that the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding by signing and returning to MSSF the enclosed copy of this Commitment Letter, together, if not previously executed and delivered, with the Fee Letters and Engagement Letter on or before the close of business on September 30, 2005 whereupon this Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters and the Engagement Letter shall become binding agreements between us. If not signed and returned as described in the preceding sentence by such date, this offer will terminate on such date. We look forward to working with you on this assignment.
 
 
 
In the event that MSSF, Citigroup or any Lender (each, an "
Indemnified Party
") becomes involved in any capacity in any action, proceeding or investigation brought by or against any person, including equity holders of NRG in connection with or as a result of our engagement or any matter referred to in this Commitment Letter or the Fee Letter (the "
Letters
"), NRG agrees to periodically reimburse each Indemnified Party for its reasonable, documented, out-of-pocket legal and other expenses (including the reasonable, documented, out-of-pocket cost of any investigation and preparation) incurred in connection therewith. NRG also agrees to indemnify and hold each Indemnified Party harmless against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities asserted against or incurred by any such person in connection with or as a result of any matter referred to in the Letters, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages or liabilities have been found by a final, non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction that such loss, claim, damage or liability results from the gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of such Indemnified Party in performing the services that are the subject of this Commitment Letter. If for any reason the foregoing indemnification is unavailable to the Indemnified Party or insufficient to hold it harmless, then NRG shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by the Indemnified Party as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative economic interests of NRG and its equity holders on the one hand and the Indemnified Party on the other hand in the matters contemplated by this Commitment Letter as well as the relative fault of NRG on the one hand and the Indemnified Party on the other hand with respect to such loss, claim, damage or liability and any other relevant equitable considerations; provided, however, that in no event shall the Indemnified Parties' aggregate contribution to the amount paid or payable by the Indemnified Parties pursuant to this sentence exceed the aggregate amount of fees actually received by them under the Letters. NRG and its affiliates will not, without the prior written consent of the Lenders, settle, compromise, consent to the entry of any judgment in or otherwise seek to terminate any action, claim, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification may be sought hereunder (whether or not any Indemnified Party is a party thereto) unless such settlement, compromise, consent or termination includes a full and unconditional release of each Indemnified Person from any liabilities arising out of such action, claim, suit or proceeding. The reimbursement, indemnity and contribution obligations of NRG under this paragraph shall be in addition to any liability which NRG may otherwise have, shall extend upon the same terms and conditions to any affiliate of the Indemnified Party and the partners, directors, agents, employees and controlling persons (if any), as the case may be, of the Indemnified Parties and any of their respective affiliates, and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors, assigns, heirs and personal representatives of the Indemnified Parties, any such affiliate and any such person. The rights of each Indemnified Party under this paragraph are independent of the rights of any other Indemnified Party under this paragraph. NRG agrees that neither any Indemnified Party nor any of its affiliates, partners, directors, agents, employees or controlling persons shall have any liability to NRG or any person asserting claims on behalf of or in right of NRG or any other person in connection with or as a result of either this arrangement or any matter referred to in the Letters; except to the extent that any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses incurred by NRG have been found by a final, non-appealable judgment of a court to have resulted from the gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of such Indemnified Party in performing the services that are the subject of the Letters .
Any right to trial by jury with respect to any action or proceeding arising in connection with or as a result of either our engagement or any matter referred to in this letter is hereby waived by the parties hereto. The provisions of this Annex A shall survive any termination of this Commitment Letter, and this Commitment Letter shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to principles of conflicts of law that would result in the application of law other than the law of the State of New York.
 
This Summary of Terms and Conditions outlines the material terms of the Senior Facilities referred to in the Commitment Letter, of which this Annex B is a part. All capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Commitment Letter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Summary of Terms and Conditions outlines the material terms of the Bridge Loans referred to in the Commitment Letter, of which this Annex C is a part. All capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Commitment Letter.
 
 
 
 
 
This Summary of Terms and Conditions of Term Loans and Exchange Notes outlines the material terms of the Term Loans and Exchange Notes referred to in Annex C to the Commitment Letter, of which this Exhibit 1 is a part. All capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Commitment Letter.
On the Maturity Date, so long as no Conversion Default has occurred and is continuing, the outstanding Bridge Loans will be automatically converted into Term Loans. The Term Loans will be governed by the provisions of the Bridge Loan Agreement and, except as expressly set forth below, will have the same terms as the Bridge Loans.
 
The Borrower will issue Exchange Notes under an indenture (the "") which complies with the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. The Borrower will appoint a trustee reasonably acceptable to the Lenders.
Indenture
 
 
This Summary of Conditions Precedent outlines certain of the conditions precedent to the Facilities referred to in the Commitment Letter, of which this Annex D is a part. All capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Commitment Letter.
 


