FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20060801065723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     On August 1, 2006, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
     On August 1, 2006, NRG Energy, Inc., or the Company, announced a $750 million share repurchase program to be implemented in two phases. Phase One is a $500 million common stock repurchase program that the Company intends to commence in August 2006 and to complete by year end 2006. Phase Two of the share repurchase plan is expected to be an additional $250 million common stock buyback to be commenced at or near the end of the first quarter of 2007, however the Company may reallocate all or a portion of Phase Two to the initiation of a common stock dividend.
     The Company plans to form two wholly-owned special purpose subsidiaries which will repurchase the shares in Phase One. The Company will capitalize the subsidiaries with $166 million in cash. Additionally, the subsidiaries will enter into non-recourse facilities with units of Credit Suisse for a total of $334 million, consisting of $250 million in debt and the issuance by the subsidiaries of $84 million of preferred equity. Neither the debt nor the preferred will be recourse to the Company. The $500 million of NRG common stock, which the subsidiaries are expected to purchase between now and year end 2006, will serve as collateral for the debt. Funding for the share repurchases will be drawn pro rata from the $166 million in cash provided by the Company and the $334 million in debt and preferred financings from Credit Suisse. The debt and preferred of one of the subsidiaries, totaling approximately $190 million, is expected to mature in the fourth quarter of 2008, and the debt and preferred of the second subsidiary, totaling approximately $144 million, is expected to mature in the fourth quarter of 2009. The debt will accrue interest and the preferred will accrue dividends which will be paid at maturity, with the accrued interest and dividends for both subsidiaries totaling approximately $66 million. In addition, Credit Suisse will retain the economic benefit of share price appreciation in excess of a 20 percent compound annual growth rate.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
     This current report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include the timing of the capital allocation program and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, and our ability to implement the capital allocation program as described herein.
     The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this Current Report on Form 8-K should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's future results included in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at www.sec.gov
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:
August 1, 2006
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported second quarter 2006 operating income of $416 million versus $43 million for the second quarter of 2005. Cash flow from operations was $238 million, including a $42 million reduction in the amount of cash collateral posted in support of trading operations, compared to $27 million during the same period last year which included a collateral outflow of $179 million. For the six months ended June 30, 2006, operating income was $626 million versus $90 million for the same period last year. Cash flow from operations year to date was $604 million for 2006, an increase of $513 million over 2005. Net income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 was $203 million and $229 million, respectively, as compared to $24 million and $47 million for the same periods last year. Net income in 2006 included $105 million in after tax refinancing expenses incurred as part of the first quarter closing of the Texas Genco acquisition, partially offset by $49 million in after-tax one-time gains related to the resolution of disputes and litigation.
Princeton, NJ; (August 1, 2006)
The quarter-on-quarter and year-to-date operating income increases largely reflect the February 2, 2006 acquisition of Texas Genco (now known as NRG Texas). Also contributing to the improved second quarter performance were plant operating rate improvements at five of the six classic NRG baseload coal plants and higher New York capacity prices versus the same period last year. These improvements were partially offset by increased general and administrative expenses associated with the NRG Texas integration and Mirant-related expenses. The year-to-date results benefited from $67 million in surplus emissions allowance sales and $30 million in improved South Central margins achieved primarily through higher plant operating rates and increased merchant sales. Offsetting these increases were $69 million in lower Northeast margins due primarily to the unseasonably mild weather in the first quarter, higher operations and maintenance expenses due to increased major maintenance, and higher general and administrative expenses.
"As we informed the market during the Texas Genco acquisition financing, we expected cash generation from both our Texas business and the classic NRG portfolio to pay immediate benefits in terms of a return to our shareholders," said David Crane, NRG's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Now, with all aspects of our business performing at higher levels as a result of the continued
 
success of the NRG program and the integration of NRG Texas almost complete, we are in a position to fulfill our promise with a $750 million capital allocation program."
FOR
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 1: Three Months Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA
Includes only Gladstone Equity Earnings; Flinders is reported as a Discontinued Operation.
(1)
Includes net interest expense of $83 million and $38 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively.
(2)
Represents a net domestic MtM gain of $37 million in 2006 (primarily in the Northeast and Texas regions) and a net domestic MtM gain of $5 million in 2005, primarily in the Northeast region.
(3)
Represents the reversal of $21 million in 2006 associated with the $119 million net domestic MtM losses recognized in 2005 and reversal of $8 million in 2005 associated with the $59 million net domestic MtM gain recognized in 2004, primarily in the Northeast region.
(4)
Table 1: Six Months Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA
Includes only Gladstone Equity Earnings; Flinders is reported as a Discontinued Operation.
(1)
Includes $67 million pre-tax gain for settlement with equipment manufacturer in 2006.
(2)
Includes interest and refinancing expenses of $313 million and $115 million for 2006 and 2005,
(3)
 
respectively.
Represents a net domestic MtM gain of $67 million in 2006 (primarily in the Northeast and Texas regions) and a net domestic MtM loss of $33 million in 2005, primarily in the Northeast region.
(4)
Represents the reversal of $65 million in 2006 associated with the $119 million net domestic MtM losses recognized in 2005 and reversal of $50 million in 2005 associated with the $59 million net domestic MtM gain recognized in 2004, primarily the Northeast region.
(5)
Lower than anticipated power prices realized on merchant energy sales from our gas fleet and the unhedged portion of our baseload fleet offset these results during the quarter and half year. Results benefited from continued strong operating performances from our baseload fleet, coupled with higher than expected generation from our Texas gas plants. This was largely driven by increased demand from hotter than normal weather and significant outages by other baseload power plants in the region. Amortization associated with net out-of-market contracts increased pre-tax operating results by $212 million and $225 million, for the quarter and year-to-date, respectively. Quarterly baseload plant operating performance was excellent at Limestone, Parish and the South Texas Project. Integration of the NRG Texas business continued throughout the second quarter and is on target for completion during the third quarter.
Texas:
Lower quarterly results for the Northeast, after adjusting for MtM impacts, were driven by weaker power prices and lower generation. Decreased demand, predominantly due to milder than expected weather, for our peaking assets resulted in lower generation hours from the oil-fired and intermediate gas-fired assets. Partially offsetting the lower demand was significantly improved equivalent forced outage rate performances from the Indian River, Huntley and Dunkirk plants, the reversal of a net $15 million station service reserve, and improved capacity pricing in New York. For the year-to-date, mild weather in the first quarter and continuing weak power prices were partially offset by sales of surplus emission allowances related to the reduced first quarter generation levels, and the improved operating performance and capacity prices.
Northeast:
Quarterly and year to-date results reflect higher net merchant sales at prices above contracted energy prices. Improved unit availability reduced the need to purchase power to service our long-term coop contracts. By contrast, during the second quarter of 2005, Big Cajun II experienced a number of unplanned outages which required us to purchase energy to serve contracted load.
South Central:
Improved quarterly results are largely attributable to the acquisition of Dynegy's 50 percent interest in West Coast Power (WCP), which closed March 31, 2006. The impact of the additional ownership is offset by lower reliability-must-run (RMR) fixed cost recovery by Encina units 4 and 5 and lower equity earnings from our Saguaro investment due to the June 2005 expiration of its favorable gas contract.
Western:
In June 2006, NRG announced it had entered into a purchase and sale agreement to sell its Flinders and Gladstone investments in Australia to Babcock & Brown and Transfield Services, respectively. Flinders has been reclassified as discontinued operations and excluded from income from continuing operations while Gladstone results continue to be reported as part of equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. Completion of the Flinders sale is expected in the third quarter and the Company is seeking to close the Gladstone sale later in the fourth quarter, subject to significant conditions precedent.
Australia:
Results for the quarter reflect our continuing efforts to monetize non-strategic assets. This quarter, we sold our interests in the James River and Cadillac equity investments for total cash proceeds of $19 million and a book gain of $11 million. Year-to-date results include
Other North America:
 
other income of $67 million related to a settlement agreement reached with an equipment manufacturer associated with turbine purchase agreements from 1999 and 2001, and the Rocky Road sale.
: Improved quarterly results were due to lower operating costs at our Itiquira operation in Brazil and increased equity earnings from our MIBRAG investment, the 2005 quarterly results of which were lower due to customers' planned outages. Additionally, we sold our interests in various Latin Power funds for net cash proceeds of $23 million and a pre-tax gain of $3 million. Year-on-year results are lower largely due to the impact of the sale of Enfield on April 1, 2005, which contributed $16 million to earnings during the first half 2005, partially offset by higher equity earnings from our MIBRAG investment.
Other International
The Company, in the normal course of business, enters into contracts to lock in forward prices for a significant portion of its expected power generation. While these transactions are predominantly economic hedges of our baseload portfolio, a portion of these forward sales are not afforded hedge accounting treatment and the MtM change in value of these transactions is recorded to current period earnings. Driving the forward MtM gains in the first quarter of 2006 was the unseasonably mild weather in the Northeast that resulted in lower energy prices for the first quarter with further declines in the second quarter. For the second quarter 2006, we recorded $37 million of forward domestic net MtM gains, compared to a $5 million net domestic MtM loss recorded in the second quarter 2005. In addition to this forward gain in the quarter, of the $119 million MtM loss recognized in 2005, $21 million reversed to income during the second quarter in 2006 and $65 million year-to-date.
MtM Impacts of Hedging and Trading Activities
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table 2: Corporate Liquidity
These amounts have not been reclassified for discontinued operations
(1)
Liquidity at June 30, 2006 was $1.98 billion, up $44 million since March 31, 2006 and approximately $1.2 billion since December 31, 2005. The $130 million cash increase during the quarter resulted from $238 million of cash from operations which included a reduction of $42 million in the amount of cash collateral posted to support trading operations, and $42 million in proceeds from asset sales. These improvements were offset by $72 million in cash interest payments, $39 million in capital expenditures, $46 million in principal debt repayments and $13 million in preferred dividend payments.
Posted cash collateral supporting hedging and trading activities at June 30, 2006 totaled $209 million, of which $135 million is expected to be returned to the Company during 2006 as the underlying trading positions settle during the year.
 
The Company is announcing today a $750 million share repurchase program which, due to the restrictions imposed by our loan covenants, will be implemented in two phases. Phase One is a $500 million common share repurchase program which the Company intends to commence immediately and complete over the course of 2006. In addition, the sale of the Australian business is expected to provide approximately $400 million in net cash proceeds that NRG intends to use to pay down its Term B loan in the first quarter of 2007. Consolidated project level debt associated with Australia is $177 million, bringing total expected debt reduction to $577 million. Phase Two of the share repurchase planwhich will be initiated after the expected step up in the Company's restricted payment capacity at the end of the first quarter 2007is an additional $250 million common share buyback. The Company reserves the flexibilitybased on market conditions at the timeto reallocate all or a portion of Phase Two to the initiation of a common share dividend.
Capital Allocation  Share Repurchase Program
"The capital allocation program that we are announcing today has been carefully sized and structured to return significant capital to shareholders in the near term, reduce leverage at the corporate level, and retain financial flexibility to support the ongoing fleet redevelopment initiative," said Robert Flexon, NRG's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "By focusing on a large buyback in the near term, we expect to be able to take maximum advantage of the significant undervaluation of our equity," added Flexon.
To execute the first phase of the share repurchase plan, within the limitations contained in the Company's credit agreement and bond indenture, the Company will form two wholly owned subsidiaries to hold the repurchased shares. The initial capitalization of the subsidiaries includes $166 million in cash from the NRG parent. Additionally, the subsidiaries will enter into non-recourse debt and preferred purchase agreements with units of Credit Suisse for an incremental $334 millionfunded through $250 million in debt and $84 million of preferred equity. Neither the debt nor the preferred will be recourse to NRG. The shares, which will be repurchased between now and year end, will serve as collateral for the debt. Periodic funding will be drawn pro rata from the subsidiary's $166 million in cash received from the parent and the $334 million in debt and preferred financings from Credit Suisse. The difference between the $334 million of facilities and the $400 million of maturities reflects accrued interest and dividends to be paid at maturity. Credit Suisse will retain the economic benefit of share price appreciation in excess of a 20 percent compound annual growth rate.
The Company is also announcing today the expansion and extension of the Focus on ROIC@NRG (NRG) program. NRG achieved $39 million of related savings in 2005 and expects to have cumulative savings of $81 million by year end 2006. With the addition of NRG Texas, the current target of $105 million improvement in EBITDA by 2008 is being increased to $200 million of recurring EBITDA improvement plus an additional $50 million of incremental cash benefit by 2009 recognizing:
FOR
NRG  Increased Targets
FOR
On June 21, 2006, NRG announced a comprehensive portfolio redevelopment effort, which involves the development, financing, construction and operation of up to 10,500 megawatts (MW) of new multi-fuel, multi-technology generation capacity at NRG's existing domestic sites to meet the growing demand for (principally) non gas-fired generation in all of the Company's core domestic
Repowering Update  Analyst Conference
 
markets. NRG expects to provide additional detail with respect to this program at our first Analyst Conference to be held October 16-18, 2006.
The Company is lowering 2006 adjusted EBITDA guidance from $1,600 million to $1,500 million to reflect:
Outlook
Although 2006 natural gas calendar strip prices have declined over 30 percent from fourth quarter 2005 levels, the net impact on our previous 2006 adjusted EBITDA guidance is approximately three percent, demonstrating the benefit of our actively managed hedging program and our diverse asset base. Cash flow from operations guidance is being reduced from $1,380 million to $1,324 million. The reduction reflects an August close for the Flinders sale. Achieving our revised target remains dependent on several factors, including normally seasonal weather and stable power prices, particularly for the balance of the third quarter.
Table 3: 2006 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA Guidance ($ in millions)
Adjusted EBITDA and cash flow from operations guidance reflects 100 percent ownership of WCP and the sale of Rocky Road.
(1)
On August 1, 2006, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. To access the live web cast and accompanying slide presentation, log on to NRG's website at and click on "Investors." To participate in the call, dial 877.407.8035. International callers should dial 201.689.8035. Participants should dial in or log on approximately five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
Earnings Conference Call
http://www.nrgenergy.com
The call will be available for replay shortly after completion of the live event on the "Investors" section of the NRG website.
NRG Energy, Inc. now owns and operates a diverse portfolio of power-generating facilities, primarily in Texas and the Northeast, South Central and Western regions of the United States. Its operations include baseload, intermediate, peaking, and cogeneration facilities, thermal energy production and energy resource recovery facilities. NRG also has ownership interests in generating facilities in Australia and Germany.
About NRG
 
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include our Adjusted EBITDA and Cash Flow from Operations guidance, expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, expected results of the NRG Texas and WCP integration processes, the expected timing of sales of our assets in Australia, and the expected benefits and timing of the capital allocation program and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, our ability to convert facilities to use western coal successfully, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide processes, our ability to achieve the benefits from the NRG Texas and WCP integration efforts, our inability to close the sales of Australia assets as described herein, and our ability to achieve the expected benefits of the capital allocation program.
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance and cash flow from operations are estimates as of today's date, August 1, 2006 and is based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-1: Second Quarter 2006 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-1: Second Quarter 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-2: YTD 2006 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-2: YTD 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
 
EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are nonGAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
Similar to adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net income represents net income adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. In addition, in evaluating adjusted net income, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.


