FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20060307064616.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On March 7, 2006, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:
March 7, 2006
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported net income of $64 million for the fourth quarter, or $0.68 per diluted share, compared to $19 million or $0.18 per diluted share for the same period in the prior year. Net income for 2005 totaled $84 million or $0.75 per diluted share versus $186 million or $1.85 per diluted share in 2004.
Princeton, NJ; (March 7, 2006)
The quarter-on-quarter increase was driven primarily by higher generation and more favorable market pricing in the Northeast region, coupled with lower G&A (approximately $25 million) and reduced interest and refinancing costs ($56 million). Full-year results for 2005 versus 2004 were favorably affected by higher energy prices, increased generation from our New York City assets, lower general and administrative costs, and reduced interest and refinancing expenses. Offsetting these improvements was $119 million of net domestic MtM losses related to the Company's open asset-backed hedges that are economically neutral to the Company. In addition, non-core asset divestitures and other changes within the portfolio also accounted for a portion of the decline.
"This was an eventful year for NRG, and we are a stronger and better positioned company at all levels todaycommercial, operations, regulatory and financialthan at any time in our past," said David Crane, NRG's President and Chief Executive Officer. "This year we built on the Company's strong foundation to extend NRG's strategic and competitive advantages within the industry. We have continued to focus on commercial and operational excellencethrough such programs as NRG, strategic hedging and risk management policies, disciplined acquisitions and divestitureswhile maintaining our commitment to prudent balance sheet management and return of capital to stakeholders."
FOR
MtM Impacts of Hedging and Trading Activities
In the fourth quarter of 2004 and over the course of 2005, the Company entered into contracts to lock in forward prices for a significant portion of its expected power generation, largely related to our Northeast assets, for the balance of 2005 and calendar year 2006. These hedging activities are intended to mitigate the risk of commodity price movements on revenues and cost of energy sold. While these transactions are predominately economic hedges of the portfolio, a majority of NRG's current forward sales portfolio
1
 
are afforded hedge accounting treatment. The sharp rise in forward electricity prices, particularly during the third quarter, led the Company to record $206 million in year-to-date MtM losses through the third quarter associated with our open economic hedged positions. During the fourth quarter 2005, lower forward electricity prices led to a $87 million net reduction in the Company's MtM loss at year end. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2005 we had $27 million in MtM gains resulting from entering into various transactions not tied to specific assets, but to support our overall portfolio.
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 1: Three Months Income from Continuing Operations before Taxes and Adjusted EBITDA by region
Table 2: Full-year Income from Continuing Operations before Taxes and Adjusted EBITDA by region
2
 
For the year, NRG's Northeast operations benefited from a significant increase in power prices resulting in wider dark spread margins, and higher gas and oil generation output. In addition, since the end of 2005, there have been significant regulatory developments affecting the Company's Northeast portfolio including:
Northeast:
The Company expects the net impact of these regulatory changes on the financial performance of our Northeast region to be moderately positive over time.
Despite improved fourth quarter commercial and operational performance, NRG's South Central results were down year-on-year. This decline was largely due to increased purchased power costs to meet larger than anticipated load following contract obligations, due to higher demand from warmer than normal weather conditions and increased forced unit outages at the Big Cajun II facility.
South Central:
Lower results are primarily attributable to the expiration of the California Department of Water Resources (CDWR) contract at the end of 2004.
Western:
While generation was higher for the year, unseasonably mild summer weather led to weak pool prices in the first quarter 2005 lowering year-on-year results.
Australia:
3
 
In May 2005, NRG announced NRGa comprehensive cost and margin improvement program, consisting of a large number of asset, portfolio and headquarters-specific targeted initiatives. The ultimate objective of this program was to produce $100 million of recurring benefits by 2008.
FOR
NRG Update
FOR
,
As of December 31, 2005, NRG achieved $39 million of related savings, exceeding our $30 million first year savings target. For 2006, NRG expects to achieve approximately $59 million of recurring cumulative savings, principally through improved performance at NRG's coal-fired plants. The $59 million target is up from our prior estimate of $54 million, reflecting the recurring benefit of our first year's success with the cumulative goal being $105 million.
FOR
"While it is still too early to reach definitive conclusions, the exceptional post-outage performance of those coal-fired units, which were subject to major planned outages during the fall, gives us a high degree of confidence that we will meet or exceed our second year NRG target," Crane continued.
FOR
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table 3: Corporate Liquidity
NRG's hedging and trading activities require credit collateral support when prices change from the levels where trades were executed. Collateral supporting these activities at December 31, 2005 totaled $530 million, of which $438 million was in cash and $92 million was letters of credit. Any outstanding collateral is returned when the underlying trades settle. Cash collateral returned between year end 2005 and March 3, 2006 was $271 million.
To fund the Texas Genco acquisition, in February 2006 NRG closed the following financings:
4
 
In addition to the above borrowings and equity issuances, the Company issued 35.4 million shares of common stock to the former owners of Texas Genco. The sellers are prohibited from selling their shares received for the acquisition before August 1, 2006 without NRG's consent. At closing of the Texas Genco transaction, common shares outstanding totaled approximately 137 million shares.
"NRG's strong cash flows and our prudent capital allocation enabled us to create significant value for NRG's stakeholders in the past year," said Robert Flexon, NRG's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "In addition to reducing debt and executing a $250 million accelerated share buyback, we invested in a number of growth opportunities, including the recently completed acquisition of Texas Genco, and NRG initiatives to improve the long-term economic and environmental performance of our assets. In the coming year, we expect continued debt reduction, investments in strategic growth opportunities and the return of capital to our shareholders to be our capital allocation priorities."
FOR
While the Company has owned Texas Genco, now known as NRG Texas, for only three weeks, the Company is confident that it will achieve its top integration priorities in a timely fashion. The Company will report more fully on the integration progress during our next quarterly earnings call.
NRG Texas Integration
The Company reaffirmed its adjusted EBITDA guidance outlook for 2006adjusted EBITDA of $1.6 billionand is increasing its cash flow from operations guidance by $140 million to nearly $1.4 billion. The improved outlook for cash flow from operations reflects lower interest rates and the timing of cash interest payments of our new debt facilities. With respect to our adjusted EBITDA and cash flow from operations guidance, our outlook, as always, is based on normal weather patterns going forward. As such, if the unusually moderate weather experienced to date in 2006 should continue through the remainder of the winter or if we experience an unusually moderate summer, this would likely result in a declining 2006 outlook for adjusted EBITDA and cash flow from operations. Adjusted EBITDA and cash flow from operations guidance excludes the net impact of the pending West Coast Power and Rocky Road transactions.
Outlook
Table 4: 2006 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA Guidance ($ in millions)
5
 
On March 7, 2006, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. To access the live webcast and accompanying slide presentation, log on to NRG's website at and click on "Investors." To participate in the call, dial 877.407.8035. International callers should dial 201.689.8035. Participants should dial in or log on approximately five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
Earnings Conference Call
http://www.nrgenergy.com
The call will be available for replay shortly after completion of the live event on the "Investors" section of the NRG website.
NRG's Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be held on Friday, April 28, 2006 at 9:30 a.m. eastern at the Hotel DuPont in Wilmington, Delaware.
Annual Meeting of Shareholders
With the recent acquisition of Texas Genco LLC, NRG Energy, Inc. now owns and operates a diverse portfolio of power-generating facilities, primarily in Texas, the Northeast, South Central and Western regions of the United States. Its operations include baseload, intermediate, peaking, and cogeneration facilities, thermal energy production and energy resource recovery facilities. NRG also has ownership interests in generating facilities in Australia and Germany.
About NRG
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include, but are not limited to, expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, anticipated timing of the WCP, Rocky Road and Audrain transactions, expected timing and results of the NRG Texas integration process, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets and related government regulation, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, our ability to convert facilities to use western coal successfully, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide processes, the timing of and the ability to complete the WCP, Rocky Road and Audrain transactions and our ability to achieve NRG Texas integration priorities.
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance is an estimate as of today's date, March 7, 2006 and is based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
6
 
7
 
Appendix Table A-1: Adjusted Net Income Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted net income and provides a reconciliation to GAAP net income, including per share amounts.
Appendix Table A-2: Adjusted Net Income Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted net income and provides a reconciliation to GAAP net income, including per share amounts.
8
 
Appendix Table A-3: Fourth Quarter 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
Appendix Table A-4: Fourth Quarter 2004 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
9
 
Appendix Table A-5: Full-year 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
10
 
Appendix Table A-6: Full-year 2004 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are nonGAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, Adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to
11
 
EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
Similar to Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted net income represents net income adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. In addition, in evaluating adjusted net income, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
16


