FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20061103064544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 3, 2006, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:
November 3, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Third Quarter 2006 Financial Highlights:
NRG today announces a coordinated series of initiatives designed to both extend and strengthen our baseload hedging position and to enable further optimization of the Company's ongoing capital allocation program. These initiatives include:
Hedge Reset and Enhanced Capital Allocation Program:
As a result of the Hedge Reset, 2007 cash flow from operations and adjusted EBITDA guidance has been raised to $1.5 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, from previous 2007 guidance provided in January 2006.
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported net income before discontinued operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 of $373 million and $588 million, respectivelyas compared to a net loss of $37 million and $4 million for the same periods last year. The quarter and year-to-date improvements primarily resulted from the February acquisition of Texas Genco LLC (now known as NRG Texas) and mark-to-market (MtM) gains in 2006 versus MtM losses in 2005. Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 was impacted by $105 million in after tax refinancing expenses incurred as part of the NRG Texas acquisition, partially offset by $54 million in after-tax one-time gains related to dispute and litigation resolutions.
Princeton, NJ; (November 3, 2006)
Cash flow from operations for the quarter was $444 million, including a $77 million benefit from returned cash collateral versus cash used by operations of $205 million during the same period last year. Third quarter 2005 results included a cash collateral outflow of $419 million. Cash flow from operations year-to-date was $1 billion for 2006, an increase of $1.1 billion over 2005. The 2005 results included a cash collateral outflow of $598 million. In addition to returned collateral, 2006 cash flow from operations reflect the contributions from NRG Texas.
Lower generation and energy prices in the Northeast region during the third quarter 2006 were partially offset by $30 million of improved South Central margins achieved mainly through higher plant operating rates. Third quarter 2005 results benefited from $25 million of emission credit revenues versus no sales in the current quarter. Year-to-date results benefited from $68 million in
 
improved South Central margins largely driven by improved reliability versus the same period last year. Quarterly and year-to-date results included higher levels of general and administrative expenses associated with the NRG Texas integration ($4 million and $11 million, respectively) and development costs ($9 million and $15 million, respectively) incurred in support of Repowering NRG initiatives.
"Our much improved third quarter operating performance helped compensate for soft summer demand for our peaking units and a falling gas price environment," said David Crane, NRG's President and Chief Executive Officer. "The relentless strengthening of our liquidity, driven by our free cash flow generation, enables us to grow the value of the business. Today, through our hedge reset and extension program, we provide for increased near-term free cash flow, greater future hedging flexibility and more efficiency in our ability to return capital to shareholdersall while reducing the commodity volatility to our business and improving the Company's credit profile."
Regional Segment Review of Results
($ in millions)
Table 1: Three Months Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA
 
($ in millions)
Table 2: Nine Months Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA
The Company, in the normal course of business, enters into contracts to lock in forward prices for a significant portion of its expected power generation. Although these transactions are predominantly economic hedges of our baseload portfolio, a portion of these forward sales are not afforded hedge accounting treatment and the MtM change in value of these transactions is recorded to current period earnings. For the third quarter 2006, we recorded $161 million of forward domestic net MtM gains, compared to a $172 million net domestic MtM loss recorded in the third quarter 2005. In addition to this forward gain in the quarter, of the $119 million MtM loss recognized in 2005, $37 million reversed to income during the third quarter in 2006 and $102 million year-to-date. Driving the forward MtM gains in 2006 were the lower energy prices for the first nine months of this year mainly due to unseasonably mild winter weather in the Northeast and the high levels of natural gas inventories in 2006. Another contributing factor is the expansion of heat rates in ERCOT, resulting in a $78 million quarterly MtM gain in our Texas region. In 2005, the MtM losses primarily resulted from the run up in natural gas prices which occurred as a result of the impact hurricanes Katrina and Rita had on natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico.
MtM Impacts of Hedging and Trading Activities
Continued strong operating performances from our baseload fleet, and higher generation from our Texas gas plants, were partially offset by lower power prices realized on merchant energy sales and the unhedged portion of our baseload fleet. Amortization associated with net out-of-market contracts increased pre-tax operating results by $219 million and $482 million for the quarter and year-to-date, respectively. The NRG Texas integration of key financial and operating systems and processes was completed during the quarter, as scheduled.
Texas:
 
Lower quarterly results for the Northeast, after adjusting for MtM impacts, were due to weaker power prices and lower generation. Reduced demand for our peaking assets resulted in lower generation hours from oil-fired and intermediate gas-fired assets. Also, 2005 third quarter results for the Northeast included revenues from the sale of emission credits, versus no recorded sales in the current quarter. Partially offsetting the lower demand and emission sales were improved capacity revenues and improved operating performance from our baseload fleet. Year-to-date, mild weather in the first two quarters, along with continuing weak power prices, were partially offset by surplus emission allowance sales in the first quarter, improved operating performance and higher capacity prices.
Northeast:
Improved quarterly and year-to-date results reflect higher net merchant energy sales at levels above contracted energy prices. Improved unit availability reduced the need to purchase power to service our long-term co-op contracts. Summer capacity revenues were also higher than last year due to new summer peak levels set in 2005. A new summer peak demand record was set in 2006 which will reset the capacity payments and benefit 2007 earnings.
South Central:
Improved quarterly results are largely attributable to increased ownership following our acquisition of Dynegy Inc.'s 50 percent interest in West Coast Power (WCP), which closed March 31, 2006. The impact on year-to-date results is partly offset by lower reliability-must-run (RMR) fixed cost recovery by Encina units 4 and 5 and lower year-to-date equity earnings from our Saguaro investment due to the June 2005 expiration of its favorable gas contract.
West:
In June 2006, NRG entered into a purchase and sale agreement to sell its Flinders and Gladstone investments in Australia to Babcock & Brown and Transfield Services, respectively. While Flinders has been reclassified as discontinued operations and excluded from income from continuing operations, Gladstone results continue to be reported as part of equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. On August 30, 2006, the Company completed the Flinders sale  receiving $242 million in proceeds resulting in a $61 million after-tax gain on the sale, which is included in discontinued operations. As a result of this sale, NRG also removed $183 million of non-recourse debt obligations from our balance sheet. We continue our efforts to close the Gladstone transaction; however, the sale is subject to significant conditions precedent which will likely prevent us from closing the transaction this year.
Australia:
Year-to-date results include other income of $67 million related to a settlement agreement associated with turbine purchase agreements from 1999 and 2001. This increase was partially offset by the March 31, 2006 sale of our 50 percent interest in the Rocky Road project.
Other North America:
: Year-on-year results are lower largely due to the impact of the sale of Enfield on April 1, 2005, which contributed $16 million to equity earnings and a $12 million pre-tax gain from the sale of this investment.
Other International
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
($ in millions)
Table 2: Corporate Liquidity
Liquidity at September 30, 2006 was approximately $2.4 billion, up $470 million since June 30, 2006 and up approximately $1.7 billion since December 31, 2005. The $447 million cash increase during the quarter resulted from $444 million of cash from operations and $242 million in proceeds from the sale of Flinders. These improvements were partially offset by $99 million in cash used for treasury stock purchases under Phase I of the capital allocation program, $62 million in capital expenditures, $35 million in principal debt repayments and $14 million in preferred dividend payments. Posted cash collateral supporting hedging and trading activities at September 30, 2006 totaled $132 million.
The Company is in the process of implementing a series of transactions that are designed to reduce the earnings impact of commodity volatility, increase capital structure efficiency and flexibility, and expand the capacity for the return of capital to shareholders, while committing to debt reduction. These transactions include:
Recent Developments
Under the amended agreements, NRG has reset the pricing of these hedges to current market prices and has agreed to a negotiated cash settlement with hedge counterparties. The total amount to be paid to the counterparties is approximately $1.3 billion. NRG's obligations under the new and amended hedges are or will be secured by second liens on substantially all of the assets of NRG and its subsidiaries, pursuant to NRG's existing second lien structure. Already, with the additional hedge capacity made available as a result of the Hedge Reset, NRG has increased its baseload hedged profile from 41 percent to 48 percent in 2010 and from 19 percent to 53 percent in 2011 at prices above those assumed in the valuation of NRG Texas.
Resetting existing hedges also improves the Company's near term earnings, cash flows, and credit profile which contribute to the Company's ability to amend the existing senior secured credit facilities. The main amendments, among other things:
 
The transactions are expected to close by November 21, 2006. The primary financial statement impacts will be a $1.1 billion increase in long-term debt and $1.3 billion in higher cash flows from operations in 2007 through 2010. Partially offsetting the debt increase will be the previously announced $400 million pay down of the Term B debt and the use of approximately $250 million of cash to fund the Hedge Reset.
In connection with the Hedge Reset, the Company expects to record a noncash after-tax loss of approximately $60 million in the fourth quarter 2006. The loss is due primarily to the assumptions used for the purchase price accounting at the NRG Texas acquisition date.
"These transactions will have an immediate and positive impact on the Company's financial profile and provide the capacity and flexibility to allocate capital to investment opportunities, debt reduction, and a continuing return of capital to shareholders," stated Robert Flexon, NRG Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "The transactions will also significantly improve our 2007 credit statistics, in particular the leverage and coverage ratios as well as operating cash flows."
During the third quarter 2006, NRG initiated our third share repurchase program since 2004a capital allocation program to repurchase approximately $750 million of its common stock in two phases. On October 13, 2006, the Company completed Phase I, which included $500 million, or 10.6 million shares in stock repurchases. Phase IIoriginally an additional $250 million common stock buyback to be initiated and completed in the first half of 2007has been upsized to $500 million with a fourth quarter 2006 accelerated start date. The Company expects to fund Phase II with cash on hand and 2007 cash from operations and anticipates completion by the end of the second quarter next year. Consistent with our approach in managing the debt and equity balance, the Company is utilizing $250 million of cash on hand to fund the Hedge Reset.
Capital Allocation  Share Repurchase Program  Phase I Completed and Phase II Upsized
"A balanced capital allocation program is a fundamental component of our financial philosophy," commented Crane. "Since 2004, the Company has paid down or removed, in connection with asset sales, more than $2.0 billion of consolidated debt, and nowwith the upsized Phase II share buybackwe will be on track to bringing the total amount of capital returned to NRG shareholders to over $1.6 billion."
The Company is maintaining its existing 2006 adjusted EBITDA guidance of $1.5 billion and updating the cash flow from operations guidance to $1.29 billion reflecting increased interest cash costs associated with higher interest rates and from the borrowings incurred in Phase I of the capital allocation program. Although commodity prices declined during the quarter and generation hours were slightly below expectations, hedges on the portfolio mitigated the impact of these factors. (See Table 3.)
Outlook for 2006 and 2007
Our 2007 adjusted EBITDA and cash flow guidance has been updated to $2.1 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, reflecting the impact of the Hedge Reset and the interest costs associated with the incremental debt. Table 4 reconciles our previous 2007 guidance with our updated outlook.
 
Table 3: 2006 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA Guidance ($ in millions)
Table 4: 2007 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA Guidance ($ in millions)
On November 3, 2006, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. To access the live web cast and accompanying slide presentation, log on to NRG's website at and click on "Investors." To participate in the call, dial 866.585.6398. International callers should dial 416.849.9626. Participants should dial in or log on approximately five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
Earnings Conference Call
http://www.nrgenergy.com
The call will be available for replay shortly after completion of the live event on the "Investors" section of the NRG website.
NRG Energy, Inc. owns and operates a diverse portfolio of power-generating facilities, primarily in Texas and the Northeast, South Central and West regions of the United States. Its operations include baseload, intermediate, peaking, and cogeneration facilities and thermal energy production. NRG also has ownership interests in generating facilities in Australia, Germany and Brazil.
About NRG
 
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include our adjusted EBITDA, cash flow from operations and free cash flow guidance, the timing and completion of announced transactions (including the hedge resets, incurrence of unsecured debt and credit amendments), the expected benefits and timing of the announced capital allocation program, expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, and the expected timing of sales of our assets in Australia, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide processes, and our ability to achieve the expected benefits of our hedging and capital allocation programs
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance, cash flow from operations and free cash flow guidance are estimates as of today's date, November 3, 2006 and is based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
This news release shall not be deemed to constitute an offer to sell or offer for sale of any security.
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-1: Third Quarter 2006 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-1: Third Quarter 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-2: YTD 2006 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-2: YTD 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
 
EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are nonGAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments or other nonrecurring events; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
Free cash flow is cash flow from operations less capital expenditures and preferred stock dividends and is used by NRG predominantly as a forecasting tool to estimate cash available for debt reduction and other investments. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. In addition, in evaluating free cash flow, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.


