FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20061011073050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 11, 2006, NRG Energy, Inc. announced the completion of phase one of its previously announced capital allocation program consisting of the repurchase of approximately $500 million of its common stock. A copy of the press release is included as an exhibit to this Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
The information contained in this Item 7.01 is not filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not deemed incorporated by reference by any general statements incorporating by reference this report or future filings into any filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent NRG specifically incorporates the information by reference. By including this Item 7.01 disclosure in the filing of this Current Report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report that is required to be disclosed solely by reason of Regulation FD.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:
October 11, 2006
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) has completed phase one of its previously announced $750 million capital allocation program. Through October 10, 2006, the Company repurchased approximately 10.6 million common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $500 million.
PRINCETON, NJ  October 11, 2006 
"This stock repurchase program demonstrates our ongoing commitment to returning capital to shareholders efficiently," said David Crane, NRG's President and Chief Executive Officer. "The cash flow productivity of our business portfolio provides the foundation for our capital allocation philosophy."
The second phase of NRG's capital allocation plan is expected to commence in 2007. As previously stated, the Company reserves the flexibility, based on market conditions at the time, to reallocate all or a portion of that second phase toward initiating a common share dividend.
NRG Energy, Inc. owns and operates a diverse portfolio of power-generating facilities, primarily in Texas and the Northeast, South Central and Western regions of the United States. Its operations include baseload, intermediate, peaking, and cogeneration facilities, thermal energy production and energy resource recovery facilities. NRG also has ownership interests in generating facilities in Australia, Germany and Brazil.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, our inability to implement the second phase of the capital allocation program or initiate a common share dividend. NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
Safe Harbor Disclosure
www.sec.gov


