FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20070802071813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
                August 2, 2007               
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 2, 2007, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits
          (d)   Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:
August 2, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Second Quarter Financial Highlights:
RepoweringNRG
:
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported income from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2007 of $149 million or $0.51 per diluted common share, as compared to $202 million or $0.63 per diluted common share for the same period last year. These results include a $35 million non-cash, pre-tax charge related to the completion of the $4.4 billion refinancing of the Company's Senior Credit Facility in conjunction with our Comprehensive Capital Allocation Plan announced on May 2, 2007, while the 2006 period benefited from $15 million in pre-tax settlement agreements. Quarterly operating income improved to $436 million from $410 million in 2006. Second quarter 2007 results included $36 million in net development costs for our NRG program. Operating income for the three months ended June 30, 2007 were favorably impacted by increased gas generation and pricing in the Northeast region. Net income from continuing operations for the first half of this year was $214 million or $0.71 per common share, compared to $217 million or $0.72 per diluted common share, for the same period last year. Operating income for the first six months of 2007 improved to $709 million from $619 million in 2006. First half results were favorably impacted by the inclusion of an additional month for NRG Texas as this business was acquired on February 2, 2006 and higher generation and pricing in the Northeast region. First half results in 2007 included $59 million of development expenses for our NRG program.
Princeton, NJ; (August 2, 2007)
Repowering
Repowering
Adjusted cash flow from operations through June 30, 2007, exclusive of collateral movements, increased by $230 million over the first six months of 2006. First half cash flow from operations in 2007 included NRG Texas for the full six months of 2007. Cash flow from operations also included a $245 million benefit from higher contract prices that resulted from last November's hedge reset transactions. Partially offsetting these improvements was a $153 million working capital build that is expected to partially reverse in the second half of this year. Cash flow from operations for the first
 
six months of 2007 was $459 million, after the posting of $103 million of net collateral outflows, versus adjusted cash flow from operations of $604 million, including the benefit of $272 million of net collateral inflows, during the same period last year.
"Through NRG and NRG we have our business well positioned for the future, while the strong execution of our commercial and plant operations has put us in a position to exceed the financial goals we had announced at the beginning of the year," commented David Crane, NRG President and Chief Executive Officer. "The quarter also marked the timely completion of construction at Long Beach, our first repowering, and demonstrates how quickly and capably we can act upon a type of project which will become increasingly prevalent as reserve margins tighten in all of our core markets."
Repowering
FOR
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 1: Three Months Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA
 
Table 1: Six Months Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA
The Company, in the normal course of business, enters into contracts to lock in forward prices for a significant portion of its expected power generation. Although these transactions are predominantly economic hedges of our baseload portfolio, a portion of these forward sales are not afforded hedge accounting treatment and the MtM change in value of these transactions is recorded to current period earnings. For the second quarter 2007, we recorded $100 million of forward domestic net MtM gain representing the increase in fair value of forward sales contracts of electricity and fuel, compared to a $8 million net domestic MtM loss recorded in the second quarter 2006. Hedging management activities included a $21 million ineffectiveness loss in the second quarter of 2007, compared to a $53 million gain in the same period in 2006 due to a change in the correlation between natural gas and power prices. This is primarily related to natural gas contracts sold as a hedge for electricity sales in the Company's Texas region.
MtM Impacts of Hedging and Trading Activities
First-half operating results this year benefited from the inclusion of one extra month of operations when compared to 2006 as NRG Texas operations contributed $51 million of pre-tax operating income and $100 million of EBITDA in January 2007. Current quarter and year-to-date EBITDA and cash flow from operations benefited by $156 million and $245 million, respectively, from the November 2006 hedge reset which increased contracted power prices. Improved operations and lower forced outage rates for the baseload coal fleet in the first half of 2007, led to a net increase in gross margin over the same period in 2006. The timing of the spring refueling outage at the STP nuclear facility contributed to increased STP operating expenses of $16 million, compared to the first half of 2006.
Texas:
 
Improved results for the Northeast, after adjusting for MtM impacts, were due to higher generation and improved power and capacity pricing. Increased generation resulted from the return of normal weather patterns versus the same period last year and transmission constraints around New York City. Prices improved as a result of increased natural gas prices. Overall this led to a $105 million, or 25%, increase in energy revenues over the first half of 2006. Gas generation at our Arthur Kill plant increased 108% over the second quarter of last year and 52% year-over-year as it was called upon frequently to reduce transmission constraints around New York City. Quarterly generation in 2007 at Huntley and Dunkirk increased by 9% due to higher availability. Capacity revenues for the three and six month periods increased 2%, or $2 million, and 18%, or $27 million respectively, reflecting the higher capacity prices in Western New York and new capacity revenue streams in the Connecticut and PJM markets that did not exist during the first half of 2006. Emission credit revenues, however, declined in comparison to 2006. Higher levels of generation combined with 43% decrease in sulfur dioxide emission credit market prices led to a $50 million decline in revenues from the sale of excess credits this year. Prior year quarterly results also benefited from the reversal of $15 million reserve.
Northeast:
Second quarter operating income was $10 million higher than last year as contract, merchant and capacity revenues were all higher than last year. Contract revenues benefited from new contracts and capacity payments rose as a new summer peak demand record was set in 2006 which reset the capacity payments for 2007. Operating income for the first half of 2007 declined by $11 million in comparison to an exceptionally strong first half performance in 2006. Increased demand from the region's load-serving customers combined with lower planned availability of the Big Cajun II coal plant reduced MWs available for sale to the merchant energy market. Energy sold to contract customers through June 30, 2007 increased by $40 million, while merchant revenues declined by $13 million.
South Central:
Results for the year-to-date 2007 reflect the increased ownership following our acquisition of Dynegy Inc.'s 50 percent interest in WCP (Generation) Holdings LLC (WCP), which closed March 31, 2006. Second quarter 2007 results are relatively flat as increased capacity revenues were offset by increased operating expenses, primarily for maintenance work performed at Encina and El Segundo to ensure availability under the new tolling agreements.
West:
Regional operating results for the first half of the year more than doubled due to a full six month's consolidation in 2007 and favorable capacity revenues from new tolling agreements executed by our Encina and El Segundo units after the acquisition date.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table 2: Corporate Liquidity
 
Liquidity at June 30, 2007 was approximately $1.9 billion, down $373 million since December 31, 2006 and $123 million since June 30, 2006. The reduction in current liquidity is mainly due to the $200 million reduction in synthetic letter of credit (LC) capacity as part of our recent restructuring of the first lien credit facility. Operating cash flows for the first six months of 2007 were $459 million inclusive of $103 million in collateral outflows and $192 million used to fund accounts receivable increases. Operating cash flows plus $29 million in proceeds from the sale of Red Bluff and Chowchilla were offset by $205 million of capital expenditures, $215 million for common share buybacks, $48 million in scheduled principal debt repayments and $28 million in preferred dividend payments.
Capital Allocation Plan Update
On June 8, 2007, NRG completed its $4.4 billion refinancing of the Company's Senior Credit Facility previously announced on May 2, 2007. The transaction resulted in a 25 basis point reduction in the pricing grid for the Term B loan and LC facilities. In addition to the pricing reduction, the Company reduced by $200 million the LC facility to $1.3 billion and made various amendments to the Senior Credit facility to provide improved liquidity flexibility, the ability to pay common share dividends, and various amendments to facilitate and support the repowering efforts. The pricing on the Company's term loan and LC facility is also subject to further reductions upon the achievement of certain financial ratios. The refinancing resulted in a charge of approximately $35 million to the current period's results of operations primarily related to the write-off of previously deferred financing costs.
On May 2, 2007, the Company announced its intention to form NRG Holdings, Inc., or Holdco to support and facilitate its Comprehensive Capital Allocation Plan. The financing on June 8, 2007, provided the Company with the right to call and convert $1 billion of the Term B loan and place it at Holdco. Doing so would increase the restricted payments (RP) capacity under the Senior Note indentures by a like amount and thereby provide sufficient RP capacity for the Company to initiate a common share annual dividend in the future. The formation of Holdco requires the approval of three regulatory bodies, two of which have since granted approval, with the final approval expected during the second half of 2007.
The Company's announced plan was to form and fund Holdco during the fourth quarter of 2007 and initiate the common dividend in the first quarter of 2008. If Holdco is formed, it will constitute a change in control under the Senior Note indentures and provide the right for bondholders to put the bonds back to the Company at 101% of par. If the current weakness in the credit markets persists into the fourth quarter and NRG's Senior Notes trade at levels below par, the Company will likely postpone implementation of the Holdco structure or allow the Holdco credit facility to expire on December 28, 2007. If this occurs, the Company will delay the introduction of an annual dividend and will in all likelihood increase common share repurchases in 2008 from previously stated targets.
The Company completed a 2 for 1 stock split by way of a stock dividend for all common stock issued and outstanding at the close of business on May 22, 2007. The additional shares resulting from the stock split were distributed by the Company's transfer agent on May 31, 2007. The number of common shares outstanding as of March 31, 2007 was 121,123,008, before the split, compared to 239,829,787 on June 30, 2007, after the split. NRG retired 14,094,962 treasury shares (post-split) during the second quarter. The Company also repurchased 2,669,200 common shares for $113 million during the quarter, bringing the total for 2007 to 5,669,200 shares repurchased for $215 million. These share repurchase amounts reflect the effect of the stock split. The Company expects to complete Phase II of the previously announced share repurchase program with the repurchase of an estimated $53 million of NRG stock by the third quarter of 2007.
 
Repowering
NRG Update
Long Beach
On August 1, 2007, the Company successfully completed and commissioned the repowering of 260 MW of new gas-fueled generating capacity at its Long Beach Generating Station. This new generation will provide needed support for the summer peak demand on SCE and California Independent System Operator systems under a 10-year power purchase agreement executed with SCE in November 2006. Capital spending for the project totaled approximately $75 million.
Cedar Bayou Generating Station
NRG and EnergyCo, a joint venture between PNM Resources Inc. (NYSE: PNM) and a subsidiary of Cascade Investment, LLC, have entered into a joint operating agreement to form a 50-50 joint venture to construct, own and operate a new 550 MW natural gas-fueled combined cycle generating plant at NRG's Cedar Bayou Generating Station in Chambers County, Texas ("Cedar Bayou 4"). The air permit was received from the Texas Commission on Environmental Air Quality last week. Negotiations with an engineering, procurement, and construction firm are in the advanced stage. Construction should take no more than 24 months and is expected to create approximately 600 construction jobs at its peak.
"Cedar Bayou 4 demonstrates our substantial competitive advantage in terms of cost, schedule, location, interconnect and access to a highly skilled work force," said Crane. "As a result, the Houston area will get the power it needs, when it is needed and at a price which people can afford."
Cedar Bayou 4 will be operated by NRG Texas' Cedar Bayou operating staff supplemented with 16 new positions at the plant. NRG's equity contribution will consist of $105 million cash, access to onsite infrastructure and services, and some of the major equipment which NRG had been holding in inventory. Plans also call for Cedar Bayou unit 3, which has been inactive for several years, to be permanently retired.
Wind Power Projects
The Company is working through its subsidiary, Padoma Wind Power, LLC, and has reached a stage of advanced development with respect to three wind projects, totaling approximately 442 MW (before partners) and 350 MW (net ownership). Accordingly, the Company has secured wind turbines from General Electric Company and Siemens Power Generation, Inc. (The planned 50% partner is supplying the wind turbines for the third project). Two of the projects are located in Texas  one of which is scheduled to commence construction this fall, while the other is scheduled to commence construction in the summer of 2008. The remaining project is located in Southern California with construction planned for the early summer of 2009. The total project cost for all three projects, net of third party contributions, is estimated at $682 million. Project level financing is expected to range from approximately 50  80% of project costs, thereby requiring a net cash investment by the Company of approximately $252 million. The expected capital cost for 2007 is $177 million of which $47 million is projected to be funded through non-recourse debt.
 
The Company is raising 2007 adjusted EBITDA guidance to $2,200 million from $2,150 million and cash flow from operations to $1,420 million from $1,398 million to reflect our strong first half performance, our fully hedged baseload position for the balance of the year and the expected reduction in second half operating expenses. Cash flow from operations and free cash flow guidance from the base business (before repowering expenses) also benefit from the higher earnings outlook. Capital expenditures associated with projects are primarily for the Long Beach Emergency Repowering, Cedar Bayou 4, and the advances made in the wind power portfolio.
Outlook
RepoweringNRG
Table 3: 2007 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA Guidance ($ in millions)
 
On August 2, 2007, NRG will host a conference call at 10:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. Investors, the news media and others may access the live webcast of the conference call and presentation materials by logging on to NRG's website at and clicking on "Investors." The webcast will be archived on the site for those unable to listen in real time.
Earnings Conference Call
http://www.nrgenergy.com
NRG Energy, Inc. owns and operates a diverse portfolio of power-generating facilities, primarily in Texas and the Northeast, South Central and West regions of the United States. Its operations include baseload, intermediate, peaking, and cogeneration and thermal energy production facilities. NRG also has ownership interests in generating facilities in Australia, Germany and Brazil.
About NRG
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include our adjusted EBITDA, cash flow from operations, and free cash flow guidance, expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, the timing, completion and expected benefits of and wind power projects, the formation and funding of Holdco and timing of our Capital Allocation Plan, and typically can be identified by the use of
RepoweringNRG
 
words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide processes, and our ability to achieve the expected benefits and timing of our NRG projects, Holdco and Capital Allocation Plan.
Repowering
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance, cash flow from operations and free cash flow are estimates as of today's date, August 2, 2007 and are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
Appendix Table A-1: Second Quarter 2007 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
Appendix Table A-2: Second Quarter 2006 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
 
Appendix Table A-3: Year-to-date 2007 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss):
Appendix Table A-4: Year-to-date 2006 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted cash flow from operations and provides a reconciliation to cash flow from (used by) operations:
Appendix Table A-5: First Half 2006 Adjusted Cash Flow from Operations reconciliation
 
EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted cash flow from operations and free cash flow are non-GAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
Adjusted cash flow from operations is a non-GAAP measure NRG provides to show cash from operations exclusive of the one-time benefit from the financing element of derivatives acquired from Texas Genco. Free cash flow is cash flow from operations less capital expenditures and preferred stock dividends and is used by NRG predominantly as a forecasting tool to estimate cash available for debt reduction and other capital allocation alternatives. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. Because we have mandatory debt service requirements (and other non-discretionary expenditures) investors should not rely on free cash flow as a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures. In addition, in evaluating free cash flow, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this new release.


