FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20070228065938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On February 28, 2007 NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:
February 28, 2007
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Fourth Quarter Highlights:
Full Year 2006 Financial Highlights:
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported net income from continuing operations for the 12 months ended December 31, 2006 of $555 million, or $3.63 per common share, compared to income of $72 million, or $0.61 per common share for last year. The significant year-on-year improvement primarily results from the February 2, 2006 acquisition of Texas Genco LLC (now known as NRG Texas) and mark-to-market (MtM) gains in 2006 versus MtM losses in 2005. Net income for the 12 months ended 2006 was unfavorably impacted by $112 million in after-tax refinancing expenses incurred as part of the NRG Texas acquisition, partially offset by $44 million in after-tax, one-time gains related to the resolution of disputes and litigation. For the fourth quarter 2006, the Company incurred a net loss from continuing operations of $33 million compared to quarterly income of $76 million for the fourth quarter 2005. This was largely due to the $85 million after-tax charge on the net settlement of hedges and resetting certain legacy Texas hedges to market (Hedge Reset) and $22 million in after-tax MtM losses in the fourth quarter 2006 compared to $53 million in after-tax MtM gains in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Princeton, NJ; (February 28, 2007)
Net cash flow from operations for the 12 months ended December 31, 2006 was $408 million reflecting the payment of $1,361 million used to reset to market the majority of the legacy NRG Texas out-of-the-money contracts under the Hedge Reset. Adjusted cash flow from operations, excluding the $137 million benefit of collateral receipts for the 2006 fourth quarter was $288 million compared to an operating cash use of $11 million during the same period in 2005, excluding $193 million in collateral receipts. Adjusted net cash provided by operations for the year, exclusive of the $534 million of cash collateral collections, was $939 million, nearly double the $473 million generated in 2005. The quarterly and annual improvements in 2006 recurring operating cash flow generation were primarily attributed to the performance of NRG Texas.
"2006 was a financial success for us in a challenging commodity pricing environment, primarily due to the successful acquisition and integration of NRG Texas and West Coast Power and to our
 
success in maintaining operational focus across the Company through our NRG initiative," commented David Crane, NRG President and Chief Executive Officer. "Our principal objective for 2007 is to repeat and expand upon the results we have achieved in 2006 by continuing our relentless focus on execution."
FOR
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 1: Three Months Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA
 
Table 2: Twelve Months Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EBITDA
 
 
The Company, in the normal course of business, enters into contracts to lock in forward prices for a significant portion of its expected power generation and risk management activities. Although these transactions are predominantly economic hedges of our baseload portfolio, a portion of these forward sales are not afforded hedge accounting treatment and the MtM change in value of these transactions is recorded to current period earnings. NRG also hedges power prices using natural gas contracts and to the extent gas and power prices are not correlated, this ineffectiveness is also reflected in our MtM results. For the fourth quarter 2006, we recorded $36 million of forward domestic net MtM losses including a $94 million loss on ineffectiveness, compared to an $88 million domestic net MtM gain recorded in the fourth quarter 2005. For the 2006 full year, NRG recognized a $171 million MtM gain versus a $119 million loss in 2005. In addition to the forward loss in the fourth quarter, of the $119 million MtM loss recognized in 2005, $14 million reversed to income during the same quarter in 2006 and $116 million year-to-date. Driving the forward MtM gains in 2006 were the lower energy prices mainly due to mild weather for much of the year in the Northeast and the downward trend in natural gas prices during 2006. In 2005, MtM losses primarily resulted from the run up in natural gas prices which occurred in the wake of hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
MtM Impacts of Hedging and Trading Activities
Income from continuing operations includes the impact of the Hedge Reset transaction. Excluding this impact, income from continuing operations for the quarter and year were $123 million and $887 million, respectively. Strong baseload generation coupled with higher than expected generation from our Texas gas plants were offset by lower than anticipated power prices realized on merchant energy sales from our gas fleet and the unhedged portion of our baseload fleet. Amortization associated with net out-of-market contracts, excluding the Hedge Reset impact, increased pre-tax operating results by $127 and $609 million for the quarter and year-to-date, respectively. Integration of NRG Texas was completed during 2006.
Texas:
Fourth quarter and full year results, adjusting for MtM impacts, were lower in 2006 versus 2005. Unseasonably mild weather during 2006 resulted in 13% and 18% lower generation for the quarter and full year, respectively, versus the same periods in 2005. Also, declining natural gas prices led to lower power prices realized with our 2006 sales being 40% and 22% below our fourth quarter and full year 2005 realized pricing, respectively. December's results, historically a critical driver for the fourth quarter, were negatively impacted by the historically warm weather. Capacity revenues for the year, however, were 10% higher compared to the previous year. Higher prices in the New York capacity markets and the introduction of a capacity market in Connecticut drove these increases.
Northeast:
Higher operating results were driven by improved plant availability reflecting lower planned and forced outages in 2006 versus 2005. Generation from Big Cajun II was 11% higher year over year, which contributed to a significant reduction in the amount of energy we were required to purchase to support our load serving contract obligations. Increased generation also allowed for higher merchant energy sales at prices above contracted energy prices.
South Central:
In the fourth quarter 2005, NRG wrote down the value of its Saguaro investment by $27 million due to the June 2005 expiration of its favorable gas contract. Annual results for 2006 reflect the acquisition of Dynegy's 50 percent interest in West Coast Power (WCP), which closed March 31, 2006. The benefit of the impact of the additional ownership on quarterly and full year results was more than offset by lower reliability-must-run (RMR) fixed cost recovery for Encina units 4 and 5 and costs incurred for repowering activities.
West:
 
: Year-on-year results were lower largely due to the impact of the sale of Enfield on April 1, 2005, which contributed $16 million to equity earnings and a $12 million pre-tax gain from the sale of this investment.
International
The Thermal business is largely contracted resulting in relatively consistent performance between the periods presented. Lower annual operating results in 2006 were primarily due to lower merchant power prices and generation levels at the Dover facility.
Thermal:
2006 results include other income of $67 million related to a settlement agreement reached with an equipment manufacturer associated with turbine purchase agreements from 1999 and 2001. This increase was partially offset by the March 31, 2006 sale of our 50% interest in the Rocky Road project.
Corporate:
On August 30, 2006, the Company announced the completion of the sale of its Flinders project in Australia. Net proceeds from the sale were $242 million resulting in an after-tax gain of $60 million on the sale, which is included in discontinued operations. We will continue our efforts to close an agreement to sell Gladstone; however, the sale remains subject to significant conditions precedent which are currently preventing us from closing the transaction. On November 8, 2006, NRG completed the sale of its Newport and Elk River Resource Recovery facilities to Resource Recovery Technologies, LLC for approximately $22 million.
Asset Sales:
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table 3: Corporate Liquidity
 
Liquidity at December 31, 2006 was approximately $2.2 billion, down $220 million since September 30, 2006 and up approximately $1.5 billion since December 31, 2005. The $623 million cash decrease during the quarter resulted primarily from $425 million of adjusted cash from operations including $137 million in proceeds from net collateral receipts offset by a net cash outflow of $273 million associated with the Hedge Reset, $299 million in net cash used for treasury stock purchases under the Capital Allocation program, $62 million in capital expenditures, $13 million in preferred stock dividend payments and $431 million in principal debt repayments. Net cash collateral posted to the Company by trading counterparties totaled $54 million at December 31, 2006. Cash collateral held is expected to be returned to the counterparties during 2007 as the underlying trading positions settle.
In November 2006, the Company net settled hedges and reset certain NRG Texas legacy hedges to market, known as the Hedge Reset. To fund the transaction, the Company issued $1.1 billion of
 
7.375% senior notes due 2017 and used $273 million of cash on hand. In connection with this transaction the Company amended its senior secured credit facilities to, among other thing, increase the synthetic letter of credit facility by $500 million to $1.5 billion and reset the restricted payments capacity from $84 million to $500 million.
During the third quarter 2006, the Company announced plans to repurchase $750 million of its common shares. In November 2006, as part of the Hedge Reset transaction the Company increased its share repurchase plan to $1 billion. As of December 31, 2006 and February 27, 2007, the Company completed $732 million of repurchases at a weighted average price of $49.43. The Company expects to complete the remainder of the share repurchases prior to June 30, 2007. As part of our overall balanced approach to capital allocation, the Company repaid $400 million of its Term B loan on December 29, 2006.
FOR
NRG  Accelerating Goal and Raising Targets
The Company's Focus on ROIC@NRG (NRG) program launched in 2005 contributed $39 million of earnings in 2005 and $144 million in 2006. The savings of $144 million through the end of 2006 is $63 million higher than the annual savings rate targeted last summer. The higher savings were largely derived from improved operating reliability, increased capacity at select plants, expansion of the program to NRG Texas and procurement synergies. As a result of the success of the NRG program to date, the current target of $200 million improvement in recurring earnings by 2008 is being accelerated to 2007. In addition, the overall target is being increased from $200 million to $250 million by 2009.
FOR
FOR
Our NRG initiatives consist of plant programs aimed at improved reliability and reduced EFOR results, cost synergies, purchasing related initiatives and corporate programs focused on cash generation, principally through active management of our working capital, and expense reductions through efficiencies. By the end of 2006 in addition to the $144 million of recurring savings, NRG achieved an estimated $114 million of incremental cash flow from initiatives such as the extension of vendor payment terms and the monetization of excess assets.
FOR
Repowering NRG
Update
In June 2006 the Company launched a comprehensive redevelopment effort () for the development, construction and operation of up to approximately 10,350 (megawatt) MW of new multi-fuel, multi-technology, environmentally responsible generation at existing NRG domestic sites. During 2006, NRG incurred $36 million in costs associated with our development efforts, including the preparation of power supply proposals associated with state and utility requests for proposals. Recent awards included:
Repowering NRG
 
Outlook for 2007
Fundamentals for our business continue to be favorable with tightening reserve margins and volatile natural gas prices. At this time, the outlook for 2007 has only been modified for the anticipated 2007 return to counterparties of cash collateral collected in 2006 and the growth capital for the Long Beach Emergency Repowering project. As part of our normal forecasting process, adjusted EBITDA and cash flow from operations guidance will be updated in our first quarter earnings release.
Table 4: 2007 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA Guidance ($ in millions)
On February 28, 2007, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. To access the live web cast and accompanying slide presentation, log on to NRG's website at and click on "Investors." To participate in the call, dial 866.585.6398. International callers should dial 416.849.9626. Participants should dial in or log on approximately five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
Earnings Conference Call
http://www.nrgenergy.com
The call will be available for replay shortly after completion of the live event on the "Investors" section of the NRG website.
NRG Energy, Inc. owns and operates a diverse portfolio of power-generating facilities, primarily in Texas and the Northeast, South Central and West regions of the United States. Its operations include baseload, intermediate, peaking, and cogeneration and thermal energy production facilities. NRG also has ownership interests in generating facilities in Australia, Germany and Brazil.
About NRG
 
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include our adjusted EBITDA and cash flow from operations guidance, the timing and completion of projects, expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, and the expected timing of sales of our assets in Australia, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide processes, and our ability to achieve the expected benefits and timing of our Repowering NRG projects.
Repowering NRG
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance and cash flow from operations are estimates as of today's date, February 28, 2007 and are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-1: Fourth Quarter 2006 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-2: Full Year 2006 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-3: Fourth Quarter 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
 
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
Appendix Table A-4: Full Year 2005 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted cash flow from operations and provides a reconciliation to cash flow from (used by) operations.
Appendix Table A-5: Adjusted Cash Flow from Operations
 
EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are nonGAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for the hedge reset, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, and write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments and other assets; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
Free cash flow is cash flow from operations less capital expenditures and preferred stock dividends and is used by NRG predominantly as a forecasting tool to estimate cash available for debt reduction and other capital allocation alternatives. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. In addition, in evaluating free cash flow, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.


