FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20081030063115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 30, 2008, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 30, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Third Quarter 2008 Highlights:
Nine Months 2008 Highlights:
Raising 2008 Adjusted EBITDA Guidance; Announcing 2009 Capital Allocation Plan; Initiating 2009 guidance:
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported net income of $784 million, or $2.83 per diluted common share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, compared to $268 million, or $0.93 per diluted common share, for the previous year's third quarter. These results include pre-tax unrealized net mark-to-market (MtM) gains of $826 million and losses of $7 million in the third quarter 2008 and 2007 respectively, as shown in Table 1 below. Operating income for the quarter was $1,449 million, an increase of $903 million over the third quarter 2007. Excluding the above mentioned MtM effects, operating income for the third quarter rose 13% to $623 million compared to $553 million in the third quarter 2007, primarily due to the strong performance of the
PRINCETON, NJ; October 30, 2008
 
Company's Texas region. Higher market prices and merchant generation, together with lower nuclear development expenses drove the year-over-year improvements. Third quarter 2008 results include a one-time pre-tax charge of $45 million to settle the CSF I call option feature and a $19 million pre-tax impairment charge related to two previously disclosed commercial paper investments, one of which was restructured during the third quarter.
Net income for the first nine months of 2008 was $965 million, or $3.45 per diluted common share, compared to net income of $482 million, or $1.66 per diluted common share, for the same period last year. The year-to-date 2008 results included $172 million in income, or $0.62 per diluted common share from discontinued operations from the previously announced sale of Itiquira Energetica S.A. (ITISA). Operating income for the first nine months of 2008 was $1,756 million compared to operating income of $1,240 million in the first nine months of 2007. Excluding the year-to-date pre-tax unrealized net MtM effects shown below, operating income was $1,643 million compared to $1,295 million in the same period in 2007. This 27% increase was driven primarily by outstanding operating performance from our South Central and Texas regions.
Adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts, was $758 million for the quarter, up 7%, or $48 million from $710 million reported for the third quarter 2007. This increase is attributed to a $45 million increase in consolidated gross margin, excluding MtM effects, mainly driven by our Texas region and a $36 million decrease in development expenses due primarily to the capitalization of costs associated with South Texas Project (STP) units 3 & 4 in 2008. These variances were partially offset by a $13 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses and a $19 million charge related to an impairment in the value of two 2007 commercial paper investments. For the first nine months of 2008, adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts, was $1,966 million versus $1,734 million for the same period in 2007. This increase is attributed to a $168 million increase in consolidated gross margin, excluding MtM effects, mainly due to strong performances from our Texas and South Central regions, together with a full nine-month operation of our Long Beach repowering project, which started commercial operation on August 1, 2007. Development expenses were $79 million lower due to $81 million lower spending related to STP units 3 & 4 which are being capitalized following the filing of the Combined Operating License Application in late 2007. These favorable variances were partially offset by lower interest income of $32 million, of which $22 million was related to the commercial paper impairment, and the balance due to lower yields on cash deposits.
Cash flow from operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 was $1,041 million after posting $320 million of net cash collateral, as compared to cash flow from operations for the same period in 2007 of $976 million after posting $107 million of net cash collateral. Excluding the impact of net cash collateral deposits for the first nine months of both years, adjusted cash flow from operations increased 26% to $1,361 million year-over-year.
"The Company has delivered exceptional quarterly performance in the face of the unprecedented disruption of our national financial system," said David Crane, NRG President and Chief Executive Officer. "In a market where other companies are struggling to preserve liquidity and maintain earnings, NRG is reporting increased liquidity and raising earnings guidance for 2008. These results illustrate the strength of our hedging program, our unique first-lien structure, our fiscal discipline and our attention to managing business and counterparty risk. These are the business principles which remain fundamental to NRG."
 
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 1: Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes
Table 2: Adjusted EBITDA
 
The Company, in the normal course of business, enters into contracts to lock in forward prices for a significant portion of its expected power generation, fuel and other commodities which impact financial performance. Although these transactions are predominantly economic hedges of our portfolio, a portion of these forward sales are not afforded hedge accounting treatment and the MtM change in value of these transactions is recorded to current period earnings. NRG also uses natural gas contracts to hedge future power prices, primarily for its baseload generation in Texas, and to the extent gas and power prices are not 100% correlated on the measurement date, this ineffectiveness is also reflected in our MtM results. For the third quarter 2008, NRG incurred $481 million of net forward MtM gains accompanied by a $352 million gain on hedge ineffectiveness compared to the third quarter 2007, when the Company recorded a $2 million forward net MtM gain and an $8 million gain on ineffectiveness. For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, the Company recognized $171 million of net forward MtM gains and a $26 million loss on ineffectiveness versus the nine months ended September 30, 2007 when it recorded $23 million of MtM gains along with a $31 million gain on ineffectiveness. The sharp decrease in the market price of natural gas during the third quarter caused the forward MtM gains and ineffectiveness recorded during the third quarter.
MtM Impacts of Hedging and Trading Activities:
The following discussion of business performance provides a quarterly comparison by segment for 2008 versus 2007 exclusive of MtM impacts. Tables A-1 and A-2 in the Appendix provide a reconciliation of net income by region to adjusted EBITDA, and these MtM impacts are discussed above.
Adjusted EBITDA for the region was up 20% to $490 million during the third quarter 2008 compared to $410 million in 2007. Increases in energy prices, net of incremental fuel costs, and hedge positions contributed $24 million in additional energy margins, while a greater proportion of baseload contracts with a capacity component added a further $39 million improvement to quarterly results. Merchant energy volumes increased 25% or 871,000 MWhrs, while the average price realized on such sales increased by more than $27/MWhrs during the quarter. Despite the higher volumes of merchant sales, baseload generation volumes were largely unchanged quarter-over-quarter, while gas plant generation fell 26% due to the effects of declining heat rates and the disruption in demand brought on by Hurricane Ike. Development expenses were lower by $35 million as STP units 3 & 4 expenditures are now being capitalized. Operating and maintenance costs increased $13 million primarily due to higher operating expenses at STP units 1 & 2.
Texas:
Third quarter 2008 regional adjusted EBITDA was $193 million, a decrease of $11 million as compared to the same quarter last year. The benefits of higher average power prices during the quarter were offset by 12% lower generation, including a 4% reduction in baseload generation, and below market commodity price hedging and commercial operations positions. Net contract revenues fell by $11 million compared to the third quarter 2007 as the cost to serve these contracts rose in line with overall price increases in the market. Capacity revenues for the region fell by $9 million quarter-over-quarter as lower New York clearing prices were partially offset by favorable anticipatory capacity hedges and the benefit of higher transition capacity payments in NEPOOL. Sales of carbon financial instruments, which are intended to partially offset future compliance costs under the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, contributed $9 million to quarterly results.
Northeast:
Third quarter 2008 South Central adjusted EBITDA was $46 million, $4 million higher than the same period in 2007. The improvement in adjusted EBITDA was largely due to a $3 million increase in capacity revenues primarily from the region's Rockford plant, which participates in the PJM capacity market. The region's quarterly results were affected by Hurricane Gustav. The resulting damage to transmission infrastructure and load demand contributed to a 6% decrease in co-op sales volumes and a 15% decrease in coal-fueled generation during the quarter, which was partially offset by a 131,000 MWhrs increase in gas-fueled peaking generation which was called upon post-hurricane to provide grid stability.
South Central:
 
The resulting decrease in energy margin from the loss of coal-fueled generation, combined with increases in purchased power from existing tolled capacity, was largely offset by an increase in the unrealized gains on forward physical power sales as a result of falling natural gas prices.
Third quarter 2008 adjusted EBITDA for the West region was $16 million, an increase of $1 million compared to the same period in 2007. The increase reflects the benefit of a full quarter's operation of the Long Beach repowering project, which came online August 1, 2007, together with increased dispatch and related energy margin from the El Segundo power plant.
West:
: With the reclassification of ITISA to discontinued operations and its subsequent sale, our German and Australian investments comprised this segment. These businesses are largely contracted and the $1 million improvement in third quarter 2008 results was due primarily to weaker U.S. dollar exchange rates used to translate financial results.
International
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table 3: Corporate Liquidity
Despite the turmoil in the financial markets during the third quarter, NRG's liquidity position increased by $432 million to over $3 billion due to a $222 million increase in cash balances and a $207 million increase in letter of credit availability. The increase in cash was driven by $605 million in cash flow from operations during the quarter reduced by approximately $130 in share repurchases, $13 million in preferred dividends paid, $14 million in debt repayments and $240 million in capital expenditures. Cash flow from operations included the $45 million settlement of the CSF I call option which was accounted for as interest expense during the period.
While the volatility in commodity prices drove collateral calls on some of our competitors during the quarter, NRG had net cash collateral inflows during this period of $8 million. The increase in letter of credit availability of $207 million was due to the return of letters of credit in support of our commercial operations hedging program of $186 million and a reduction in letters of credit of $37 million resulting from moving a counterparty to the first lien structure, which was partially offset by increases in corporate letters of credit mainly to support our NRG efforts.
Repowering
NRG's $3.0 billion in liquidity at September 30, 2008 was $334 million higher than at December 31, 2007. Despite posting $320 million of net cash collateral during the first nine months of the year, net cash flow from operations of over $1 billion, together with $241 million in net proceeds from the sale of ITISA, helped to increase cash on hand by $354 million. The strong cash and liquidity position during the first nine months of the year enabled the Company to repurchase $185 million in common shares, pay down debt of $202 million, settle the CSF I call option feature at a cost of $45 million, pay preferred dividends of $41 million and invest $649 million in cash capital expenditures.
 
2008 Capital Allocation Plan Updated / 2009 Capital Allocation Plan Announced
During the first nine months of 2008, the Company invested $243 million in the existing asset fleet including $115 million and $128 million in environmental and maintenance spending, respectively. NRG included year-to-date capital investments of $466 million with $282 million in wind projects, the first of which, Sherbino I, has just achieved commercial operation, $82 million at the 550 MW Cedar Bayou CCGT project and $55 million at STP units 3 & 4. The Company repaid $202 million in consolidated debt during the first nine months of the year and repurchased approximately $130 million in shares in August to raise share repurchases under our 2008 Capital Allocation Plan to $270 million since the plan was announced 12 months ago. NRG also settled the NRG CSF I call option as a partial repayment of the outstanding financing structure during the quarter.
Repowering
Upon the filing of the third quarter Form 10-Q, the restricted payment basket under NRG's bond indenture will increase to $418 million. Accordingly, as a key element of its 2009 Capital Allocation Plan, the Company is announcing its intention to purchase an additional $300 million in common stock. Further, as part of its 2009 plan, the Company will invest over $511 million in maintenance and environmental capital expenditures in the existing assets in 2009 and $118 million in projects under NRG that are currently under construction or for which there exist current obligations. In addition to scheduled debt amortization payments, in the first quarter 2009, the Company expects that it will offer its first-lien lenders 50% of the "2008 Excess Cash Flow" as defined in the Company's Credit Agreement.
Repowering
FOR
NRG  Achieves 2008 Targets,
FOR
NRG 2.0 Introduced
The Company's Focus on ROIC@NRG (NRG) program, a companywide effort introduced in 2005, is designed to increase the return on invested capital, or ROIC, through operational performance improvements to the Company's asset fleet, along with a range of initiatives at plants and the corporate office to reduce costs or, in some cases, increase revenue. NRG accomplishments include both recurring and one-time cash improvements measured from a 2004 baseline, with the exception of the Texas region where benefits are measured using 2005 as the base year. During 2007, the Company announced the acceleration and planned conclusion of the NRG 1.0 program by bringing forward the previously announced 2009 target of $250 million in pre-tax income improvements to 2008. As of September 30, 2008, the Company was able to lock in gains which, projected over the balance of 2008, will cause the Company to comfortably exceed its 2008 annual goal.
FOR
FOR
FOR
Having achieved these goals, the Company formally announces today the initiation of NRG 2.0 with higher targets. NRG 2.0 will focus on: (1) revenue enhancement, (2) cost savings, and (3) asset optimization, including reducing excess working capital and other assets. While the aggregated NRG 2.0 program performance will use the Company's 2008 financial results as a baseline, performance calculations for plant operations will be based upon the average full-year plant key performance indicators for years 2006-2008. Current targets for NRG 2.0 are improvements in the Company's ROIC by 100 basis points and a $150 million increase in free cash flow by 2012.
FOR
FOR
FOR
FOR
Repowering
NRG Update
NRG is a comprehensive portfolio redevelopment program designed to develop, construct and operate new multi-fuel, multi-technology, highly efficient, environmentally responsible generation capacity over the next decade. Recent developments in this program include:
Repowering
 
Sherbino I Reaches Commercial Operations
On February 1, 2008, NRG, through its wholly owned subsidiary, NRG Sherbino LLC, entered into a 50/50 joint venture with a subsidiary of BP Alternative Energy North America Inc. to build the Sherbino I Wind Farm, a 150 MW wind project located approximately 40 miles east of Fort Stockton in Pecos County, Texas. The Sherbino project reached commercial operation on October 13, 2008.
GenConn Energy LLC Wins Connecticut Bids
On June 25, 2008, GenConn Energy LLC, or GenConn, a 50/50 joint venture between NRG and The United Illuminating Company, was awarded a contract with the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control (DPUC) to build approximately 200 MW of new peaking generation at NRG's existing Devon plant in Milford, CT. The new Devon generating unit is scheduled to be in operation by June 1, 2010. On October 6, 2008, GenConn was awarded an additional contract for the construction and operation of approximately 200 MW of peaking generation at NRG's Middletown facility in Middletown, CT, with a commercial operation date of June 1, 2011. GenConn subsidiaries have executed 30-year contracts with Connecticut Light & Power for each of these projects that the DPUC has approved.
Plants under Construction
On March 27, 2008, NRG, through Padoma Wind Power LLC, began construction of the Elbow Creek project, a wholly owned 122 MW wind farm in Howard County near Big Spring, Texas. The Elbow Creek project remains on schedule to reach commercial operation by the end of 2008.
On August 2, 2007, NRG and EnergyCo, a joint venture between PNM Resources Inc. and a subsidiary of Cascade Investment, LLC, announced the construction of 550 MW of new gas-fueled combined cycle generation, through its joint venture with EnergyCo, at NRG's Cedar Bayou Generating Station in Chambers County, TX. Notwithstanding Hurricane Ike, the project remains on track for a mid-year 2009 commercial operation date.
Table 4: Adjusted EBITDA Guidance for 2008 and 2009 ($ in millions)
 
Outlook for 2008
As a result of robust operational and commercial performance year-to-date, we are increasing 2008 adjusted EBITDA guidance by $100 million, from $2.3 billion to $2.4 billion. NRG's annual 2008 cash flow from operations guidance remains at $1.5 billion as higher operating performance and decreases in working capital are offset by increased interest expense related to the CSF I call option settlement, higher cash taxes and increased cash collateral paid. Excluding forecasted collateral changes, cash flow from operations is $1.7 billion or $114 million above prior guidance. The decrease in repowering capital spending of $68 million is largely attributable to delays in the spending profile for the El Segundo repowering project.
Outlook for 2009
NRG is initiating guidance for 2009 with adjusted EBITDA of $2.2 billion. Free cash flow before environmental and repowering expenses is estimated at $1.0 billion. The Company's 2009 guidance reflects the introduction of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative in the Northeast portfolio and the impact of ERCOT's introduction in mid-year 2008 of new congestion management practices. The guidance also includes full year results for the Sherbino and Elbow Creek wind projects and a mid-year online date for Cedar Bayou 4. Adjusted EBITDA for 2009 also reflects the impact on margins and operating costs due to an increase in outage hours driven by two bi-annual outages at our WA Parish coal plant and two outages at Dunkirk to complete the installation of backend controls. Cash taxes are anticipated to rise as NRG will have fewer net operating losses available to offset taxable income. Given the volatility in cash collateral calls, NRG is assuming no change in 2009 cash collateral posted or received resulting in cash from operations of $1.3 billion. Repowering capital expenditures include spending to advance work on STP units 3 & 4 and is net of $50 million in funding from our venture partner as well as capital expenditures for other projects currently under construction or which have contractual commitments.
Unsolicited Exelon Proposal
On October 19, 2008, NRG received an unsolicited proposal from Exelon Corporation to acquire all of the outstanding shares of NRG at a fixed exchange ratio of 0.485 Exelon shares for each NRG common share. NRG's Board of Directors is reviewing Exelon's proposal with their advisors and will determine the appropriate response in due course. NRG stockholders have been advised to take no action at this time pending the review by NRG's Board of Directors.
Earnings Conference Call
On October 30, 2008, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. Investors, the news media and others may access the live webcast and presentation materials by logging on to NRG's website at and clicking on "Investors." Later that day, the call will be available for replay from the "Investors" section of the NRG website.
http://www.nrgenergy.com
About NRG Energy, Inc.
NRG Energy, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, owns and operates one of the country's largest and most diverse power generation portfolios. NRG's 48 plants provide approximately 24,000 megawatts of generation capacityenough to power nearly 20 million homes. In November 2007, NRG won two of the industry's highest honorsPlatts Industry Leadership and Energy Company of the Year awards. Headquartered in Princeton, NJ, NRG is a member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), a group of business and environmental organizations calling for mandatory legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. More information is available at .
www.nrgenergy.com
 
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include our adjusted EBITDA, cash flow from operations guidance and free cash flow, the timing and completion of projects, NRG targets, the Company's Capital Allocation Plan and expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide processes, our ability to achieve the expected benefits and timing of our NRG projects, NRG initiatives and the Company's Capital Allocation Plan.
RepoweringNRG
FOR
Repowering
FOR
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance, cash flow from operations and free cash flow are estimates as of today's date, October 30, 2008 and are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
www.sec.gov
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
Appendix Table A-1: Third Quarter 2008 Regional Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
 
Appendix Table A-2: Third Quarter 2007 Regional Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
 
Appendix Table A-3: Year-to-date September 30,2008 Regional Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
 
Appendix Table A-4: Year-to-date September 30, 2007 Regional Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
 
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for discontinued operations, gains on sale of equity method investments and other assets; factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release. Adjusted EBITDA, excluding mark-to-market (MtM) adjustments, is provided to further supplement adjusted EBITDA by excluding the impact of unrealized MtM adjustments included in EBITDA for hedge contracts that are economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in accordance with SFAS No. 133 as well as the ineffectiveness impact of economic hedge contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM adjustments, is a supplemental measure provided to illustrate the impact of MtM movements on adjusted EBITDA resulting from commodity price movements for economic hedge contracts while the underlying hedged commodity has not been subject to MtM adjustments.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,
Free cash flow is cash flow from operations less capital expenditures and preferred stock dividends and is used by NRG predominantly as a forecasting tool to estimate cash available for debt reduction and other capital allocation alternatives. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. In addition, in evaluating free cash flow, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release. Free cash flow improvements targeted under our NRG program are expected to result in increased cash provided by operations or reduced cash used in investing activities, and a reconciliation to such measures is not accessible on a forward looking basis.
FOR


