FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20081209171619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of NRG Energy, Inc. ("NRG") and the Board, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, approved effective January 1, 2009, the 2009 base salary, equity compensation and incentive design for annual compensation for the Company's named executive officers which, based upon management's overall recommendation for senior executives of the Company in light of current market conditions, remain unchanged from the prior year. The Compensation Committee also approved, effective January 1, 2009, the 2009 base salary, equity compensation and incentive design for annual compensation for Clint Freeland, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NRG, which was contemplated as part of Mr. Freeland's promotion to Chief Financial Officer in March 2008. Mr. Freeland's approved 2009 compensation is set forth in and filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this current report on Form 8-K.
In addition, in order to ensure compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Board of Directors approved an amendment to the employment agreement for David Crane, President and Chief Executive Officer of NRG, and to NRG's Executive Change-in-Control and General Severance Plan (the "Plan"). Furthermore, in the case of the amendment to Mr. Crane's employment agreement, changes were made to preserve the ability of the Company to deduct under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code any annual bonus compensation paid to Mr. Crane. These amendments do not otherwise alter or amend Mr. Crane's employment agreement or the Plan in any material respect. Mr. Crane's contract and the Plan will be filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 9, 2008

Exhibit 10.1
 


