FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20081110104404.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[x]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 9, 2008, NRG Energy, Inc. ("NRG") issued a press release announcing the NRG Board of Directorss rejection of Exelon Corporations unsolicited proposal. The press release announcing the response, including the full text of NRGs letter, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference. Safe Harbor Disclosure This Current Report does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. Certain statements contained herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG belie ves that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, risks and uncertainties related to the capital markets generally. NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRGs actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included herein should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRGs future results included in NRGs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 - Press Release dated November 9, 2008
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today announced that its Board of Directors has unanimously determined that the October 19, 2008 unsolicited proposal from Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC) significantly undervalues NRG and is not in the best interests of NRG's shareholders. The Board thoroughly reviewed Exelon's proposal and reached its decision after careful consideration with its independent financial and legal advisors.
PRINCETON, NJ  November 9, 2008 
In making its determination, the NRG Board of Directors considered, among other factors, the following:
Accordingly, today on November 9, 2008, the following formal response was sent to Exelon Chairman and CEO, John Rowe:
November 9, 2008
Mr. John W. Rowe Chairman and CEO Exelon Corporation P.O. Box 805398 Chicago, IL 60680-5398
Dear Mr. Rowe:
The Board of Directors of NRG Energy, Inc., with the assistance of its financial and legal advisors, has thoroughly reviewed and considered your October 19, 2008 letter. Based upon this review, the Board has unanimously rejected your proposal because it is not in the best interests of NRG shareholders as it manifestly undervalues NRG both on an absolute basis and relative to your own share value. One critical example of the inequity of your proposed 0.485 fixed exchange ratio is that, under your proposal, NRG shareholders would own only 17% of the combined company while contributing over 30% of a combined NRG-Exelon free cash flow in 2008.
Another important factor considered by the NRG Board of Directors was Exelon's lack of committed financing to complete the transaction, which presents real risks of non-consummation to NRG's shareholders. In your October 19 bid letter, you confirmed that the proposal had no committed financing arranged. On Monday, October 20, you stated publicly that you would have fully committed financing "in place over the next few days." On Tuesday, October 21, Exelon's corporate credit rating was downgraded by the rating agencies, and placed on credit watch with negative outlook. The Exelon letter, dated November 3, clearly communicates that Exelon can only arrange fully committed financing if NRG works with Exelon to make our financial resources available to you.
th
th
st
rd
Your obvious difficulties on both the debt financing and credit rating front since your public bid supports our conclusion that, even apart from your proposal's substantial undervaluation of NRG, your proposal is so highly conditional that it has severe implementation risk for which NRG shareholders are in no way compensated. As to your November 3 suggestion that we work together to secure bondholder consent, or some other structural solution to keep the bonds in place, it would seem that your own experience over the past two weeks would have caused you to conclude that this credit environment is not the most opportune time to refinance all or a major portion of NRG's long-term debt. Nor is it the best time to seek the indulgence of the credit rating agencies in support of the transaction contemplated by your proposal.
rd
Please be assured that our Board's decision is not an indication of disrespect for you or your company. Exelon undoubtedly is one of the top utility holding companies in the country. Likewise, we do agree with, and very much appreciate, your assessment that NRG is the "best investment available" in the power sector. In making its decision, our Board considered many of the same value drivers as you did, including:
As you can see, NRG is stronger than ever before in our history and our prospects have never looked better.
Based on these factors, we could not be more certain in our belief that your proposal is opportunistic, serving only as a means for Exelon to extract a severely disproportionate percentage of the current and future value of NRG and its assets from its rightful owners, NRG's shareholders, and transfer it to Exelon and its shareholders.
We made you aware of our Board of Directors' and management team's commitment to maximizing value for our shareholders at our meeting on September 30. In fact, when we received your call on September 26 to set up the September 30 meeting, you explicitly acknowledged Exelon's willingness to agree to a value proposition that came closer to reflecting NRG's fundamental value. While we remain open to extrinsic opportunities that will create value for our shareholderswe also hoped that you understood from our conversation our confidence in achieving our value objectives through our continued successful implementation of our strategic plan as a standalone public company. Instead, 19 days later, you came in with a lowball exchange ratio vastly below the price range you had mentioned in setting up the September 30 meeting.
th
th
th
,
th
Now, as you have eschewed a private negotiation and pursued us in a highly public and preemptive manner, in a way that has obviated the possibility of thorough discussion, it is incumbent on us to note that, in addition to the inadequate value proposition, there are several important risks and concerns to NRG shareholders embedded within your proposal which were not addressed in your letter nor in your many subsequent public announcements given that your proposed consideration is Exelon stock, including:
We agree with you that NRG is unique. NRG is the best-positioned, highest-growth, most well-diversified and best-hedged company in the sector. Exelon shareholders are able to access the benefits of NRG ownership easily and immediately through direct investment in NRG, while avoiding the management uncertainty, conditionality and economic waste implicit in your proposal. Indeed, we believe that our shareholders well understand the NRG value proposition, and the NRG Board believes that NRG shareholders should realize the full, undiluted benefits of the value that these attributes and skills will create for them in the years to come. Your proposal would significantly dilute the value proposition for NRG shareholders and that is not at all compelling.
Please be assured that NRG is a believer in industry consolidation and has and always will be a willing seller or buyer when genuine value can be created for both parties. Your proposal, while undoubtedly an exceptional deal for your shareholders, is not at all right for our shareholders. As such, we respectfully decline your offer.
Sincerely,
Conference Call
NRG Energy will host a conference call on Monday, November 10, 2008 at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss the announcement. Participants may access the live, listen-only conference call by dialing 800.762.8779 (toll-free) or 480.629.1990 (international). The conference ID # is 3940444. A slide presentation and live audio webcast will be available at  under the "Investors" section from the menu at the top of the page. The webcast will be archived on the Company's website for those who are unable to listen in real time. Participants should plan to dial in or log on approximately five minutes prior to the scheduled start time. 
http://www.nrgenergy.com
NRG Energy, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, owns and operates one of the country's largest and most diverse power generation portfolios. NRG's 48 plants provide approximately 24,000 megawatts of generation capacityenough to power nearly 20 million homes. In November 2007, NRG won two of the industry's highest honorsPlatts Industry Leadership and Energy Company of the Year awards. Headquartered in Princeton, NJ, NRG is a member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), a group of business and environmental organizations calling for mandatory legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. More information is available at .
About NRG
www.nrgenergy.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval.
Certain statements contained herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, risks and uncertainties related to the capital markets generally.
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included herein should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
www.sec.gov
Contacts:


