FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20090427165450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[x]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Gerald Luterman was appointed to the Board of Directors of NRG Energy, Inc., or NRG, effective April 24, 2009. Mr. Luterman joined the board as an independent director and was also appointed to serve on the Audit and Finance Committees of the Board of Directors. The Board has determined that Mr. Luterman qualifies as an "audit committee financial expert" within the meaning of the regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Luterman and any other person pursuant to which he was appointed as a director. Non-employee directors other than the Chairman, receive total annual compensation of $180,000 for their service as a member of the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise elected by the director, directors receive 50 percent of their total annual compensation in the form of cash and the remaining 50 percent in the form of vested deferred stock units, or DSUs. On April 24, 2009, Mr. Luterman received a grant of DSUs in a n amount equal to $90,000 divided by the closing price of NRGs common stock on April 24, 2009. Each DSU is equivalent in value to one share of NRGs common stock. The DSUs issued to Mr. Luterman will be exchanged for such common stock on a one-to-one basis upon termination of his service on NRGs Board of Directors. The foregoing description of NRGs non-employee directors compensation is qualified by reference to the description included in the preliminary proxy statement for NRGs 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 2, 2009. On April 27, 2009, NRG issued a press release announcing Mr. Lutermans appointment, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Incorporated by reference to Item 5.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated April 27, 2009
Important Information This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of proxy of any stockholder of NRG Energy, Inc. (NRG). NRG filed a preliminary proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on April 2, 2009 in connection with its 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the 2009 Annual Meeting). Prior to the 2009 Annual Meeting, NRG will furnish a definitive proxy statement to its stockholders, together with a WHITE proxy card. INVESTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF NRG ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 2009 ANNUAL MEETING IN ITS ENTIRETY BECAUSE IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION. In response to the exchange offer proposed by Exelon Corporation referred to in this news release, NRG has filed with the SEC a Solicitation/Recommendation Statement on Schedule 14D-9. STOCKHOL DERS OF NRG ARE ADVISED TO READ NRGS SOLICITATION/RECOMMENDATION STATEMENT ON SCHEDULE 14D-9 IN ITS ENTIRETY BECAUSE IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and stockholders will be able to obtain free copies of NRGs preliminary proxy statement, the Solicitation/Recommendation Statement on Schedule 14D-9, any amendments or supplements to the proxy statement and/or the Schedule 14D-9, any other documents filed by NRG in connection with the 2009 Annual Meeting and/or the exchange offer by Exelon Corporation, and other documents filed with the SEC by NRG at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Free copies of the definitive proxy statement, the Solicitation/Recommendation Statement on Schedule 14D-9, and any amendments and supplements to these documents can also be obtained by directing a request to Investor Relations Department, NRG Energy, Inc., 211 Carnegie Center, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. NRG and its directors and executive officers will be deemed to be participan ts in the solicitation of proxies in connection with its 2009 Annual Meeting. Detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of NRGs directors and executive officers is available in the preliminary proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on April 2, 2008.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) has appointed Gerald Luterman, the former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of KeySpan Corporation, to NRG's Board of Directors. Mr. Luterman oversaw financial operations at KeySpan, one of the largest gas distribution and integrated energy companies in the U.S., for eight years before it merged with National Grid in 2007.
PRINCETON, NJ; April 27, 2009
"With his executive experience within the energy sector and his insights into accounting and finance and other industry matters, Gerald will be a great asset to our Board," said Howard Cosgrove, Chairman of the NRG Board. "The NRG Board is comprised of directors with diverse backgrounds and highly useful experience in and around the electricity industry, and Gerald, with his financial expertise and his power experience, will be a very valuable addition to the Board."
Prior to KeySpan, Mr. Luterman served as Senior Vice President and CFO with Arrow Electronics, and also has held senior level financial positions with American Express, Emerson Electric and Booz-Allen & Hamilton. He is a director of Ramsey Industries, U.S. Shipping Partners and Lutheran Medical Center. Born and raised in Montreal, Canada, Mr. Luterman is a qualified Canadian Chartered Accountant. He graduated from McGill University in Montreal, earning a Bachelor of Commerce degree, and received a Master of Business Administration from the Harvard Business School.
In its preliminary proxy statement, Exelon (NYSE: EXC) has proposed to expand the size of the NRG Board of Directors to up to 19 directorsfour of its nominees to replace four of NRG's incumbent Board members currently up for re-election at NRG's annual meeting, and five nominees for its proposed expansion slate. On March 26, NRG called upon Exelon to withdraw its proposal to expand the Board in order to reduce the risk of an unintended acceleration of approximately $8 billion of NRG's existing debt. Exelon has not taken any steps to comply with that request. NRG, however, has now added two new independent directors to its Board, expanding it from 12 to 14 members, 13 of whom are non-management.
NRG Energy, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, owns and operates one of the country's largest and most diverse power generation portfolios. NRG's 48 plants provide approximately 24,000 megawatts of generation capacityenough to power nearly 20 million homes. In November 2007, NRG won two of the industry's highest honorsPlatts Industry Leadership and Energy Company of the Year awards. Headquartered in Princeton, NJ, NRG is a member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), a group of business and environmental organizations calling for mandatory legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. More information is available at .
www.nrgenergy.com
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of proxy of any stockholder of NRG Energy, Inc. ("NRG"). NRG filed a preliminary proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on April 2, 2009 in connection with its 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2009 Annual Meeting"). Prior to the 2009 Annual Meeting, NRG will furnish a definitive proxy statement to its stockholders, together with a WHITE proxy card. INVESTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF NRG ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 2009 ANNUAL MEETING IN ITS ENTIRETY BECAUSE IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
Important Information
In response to the exchange offer proposed by Exelon Corporation referred to in this news release, NRG has filed with the SEC a Solicitation/Recommendation Statement on Schedule 14D-9. STOCKHOLDERS OF NRG ARE ADVISED TO READ NRG'S SOLICITATION/RECOMMENDATION STATEMENT ON SCHEDULE 14D-9 IN ITS ENTIRETY BECAUSE IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
Investors and stockholders will be able to obtain free copies of NRG's preliminary proxy statement, the Solicitation/Recommendation Statement on Schedule 14D-9, any amendments or supplements to the proxy statement and/or the Schedule 14D-9, any other documents filed by NRG in connection with the 2009 Annual Meeting and/or the exchange offer by Exelon Corporation, and other documents filed with the SEC by NRG at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Free copies of the definitive proxy statement, the Solicitation/Recommendation Statement on Schedule 14D-9, and any amendments and supplements to these documents can also be obtained by directing a request to Investor Relations Department, NRG Energy, Inc., 211 Carnegie Center, Princeton, New Jersey 08540.
8
NRG and its directors and executive officers will be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with its 2009 Annual Meeting. Detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of NRG's directors and executive officers is available in the preliminary proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on April 2, 2008.
This communication contains forward-looking statements that may state NRG's or its management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations or predictions for the future. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, risks and uncertainties related to the capital markets generally.
Forward-Looking Statements
The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included herein should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Statements made in connection with the exchange offer are not subject to the safe harbor protections provided to forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Contacts:


