FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20090804163646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On July 29, 2009, IVS Associates, Inc., the independent inspector of elections for NRG Energy, Inc's 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on July 21, 2009, certified that the stockholders of NRG approved an amendment to Article Six of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The amendment revises the voting standard in the case of any uncontested director election from a plurality vote standard to a majority vote standard. A copy of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 3.1 - Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

The name of the Corporation is NRG Energy, Inc.
The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, 19801. The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
The nature of the business or purposes to be conducted or promoted is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Section 1. . The total number of shares of capital stock which the Corporation has authority to issue is 510,000,000 shares, consisting of:
Authorized Shares
The Preferred Stock and the Common Stock shall have the rights, preferences and limitations set forth below.
Section 2. . The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time and in one or more series. By resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the total number of Directors then in office, the Board of Directors of the Corporation is authorized to determine or alter the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions granted to or imposed upon any wholly unissued series of Preferred Stock, and within the limitations or restrictions stated in any resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors adopted by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the total number of Directors then in office, originally fixing the number of shares constituting any series of Preferred Stock to increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares of any such series of Preferred Stock, then outstanding) the number of shares of any such series of Preferred Stock and to fix the number of shares of any series of Preferred Stock. In the event that the number of shares of any series of Preferred Stock shall be so decreased, the shares constituting such decrease shall resume the status which such shares had prior to the adoption of the resolution originally fixing the number of shares of such series of Preferred Stock subject to the requirements of applicable law. The powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each series of Preferred Stock, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions granted to or imposed upon, any such series of Preferred Stock may be made dependent upon facts ascertainable outside the resolutions or resolutions providing for the issue of such Preferred Stock, adopted by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the total number of Directors then in office, provided that the manner in which such facts shall operate upon the powers, preferences and rights of, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding. Any of the powers, preferences and rights of, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions granted to or imposed upon, such series of Preferred Stock is clearly and expressly set forth in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series of Preferred Stock adopted by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the total number of Directors then in office.
Preferred Stock
Section 3. .
Common Stock
(a) . Except as otherwise provided by the Delaware General Corporation Law or this Certificate of Incorporation (this ""), the holders of Common Stock, subject to the rights of holders of any series of Preferred Stock, shall share ratably in all dividends as may from time to time be declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation in respect of the Common Stock out of funds legally available for the payment thereof and payable in cash, stock or otherwise, and in all other distributions (including, without limitation, the dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation), whether in respect of liquidation or dissolution (voluntary or involuntary) or otherwise, after payment of liabilities and liquidation preference on any outstanding Preferred Stock.
Dividends and Other Distributions
Certificate
(b) . No holder of Common Stock shall have any preemptive rights with respect to the Common Stock or any other securities of the Corporation, or to any obligations convertible (directly or indirectly) into securities of the Corporation, whether now or hereafter authorized.
Preemptive Rights
(c) . Except as otherwise provided by the Delaware General Corporation Law or this Certificate and subject to the rights of holders of any series of Preferred Stock, all of the voting power of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be vested in the holders of the Common Stock, and each holder of Common Stock shall have one vote for each share held by such holder on all matters voted upon by the stockholders of the Corporation.
Voting Rights
The Corporation is to have perpetual existence.
Except as provided by the Certificate of Incorporation (including any duly authorized certificate of designation of any series of Preferred Stock), each Director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that Director's election at any meeting for the election of Directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if the number of nominees at any such meeting exceeds the number of Directors to be elected at the meeting, the Directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of Directors. For purposes of this Article, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a Director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that Director.
Subject to any rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, the number of Directors which shall constitute the Board of Directors shall initially be established at eleven and, thereafter, may be enlarged up to fifteen by the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of directors then in office or may otherwise be enlarged with the approval of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding, and may be reduced by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of Directors then in office. Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the size of the Board of Directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of Directors then in office or by vote of the stockholders.
In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, amend or repeal the By-laws of the Corporation.
Section 1. .
Indemnification; Limitation of Liability
(a) To the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, and excepts as otherwise provided in the Corporation's By-laws, (i) no Director of the Corporation shall be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages arising from a breach of fiduciary duty owed to the Corporation or its stockholders; and (ii) the Corporation shall indemnify its officers and Directors.
(b) Any repeal or modification of the foregoing paragraph by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a Director of the Corporation in respect of any act, omission or condition existing or event or circumstance occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
Section 1. . At each annual meeting of stockholders, Directors of the Corporation shall be elected to hold office until the expiration of the term for which they are elected, and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified; except that if any such election shall be not so held, such election shall take place at a stockholders meeting called and held in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law. The Directors of the Corporation shall be divided into three classes as nearly equal in size and as is practicable, hereby designated Class I, Class II and Class III. The term of office of the initial Class I Directors shall expire at the first annual meeting of the stockholders after the effective date of the Corporation's Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, dated October 10, 2003, as may be amended or supplemented from time to time (the "Plan"), the term of office of the initial Class II Directors shall expire at the second annual meeting of the stockholders after the effective date of the Plan and the term of office of the initial Class III Directors shall expire at the third annual meeting of the stockholders after the effective date of the Plan. For purposes hereof, Class I, Class II and Class II Directors shall be those Directors elected by the stockholders of the Corporation in connection with the amendment and restatement of this Certificate and designated pursuant to the Plan. At each annual meeting after the effective date of the Plan, Directors to replace those of a class whose terms expire at such annual meeting shall be elected to hold office until the third succeeding annual meeting and until their respective successors shall have been duly elected and qualified. If the number of Directors is hereafter changed, any newly created directorships or decrease in directorships shall be so apportioned among the classes as to make all classes nearly as equal in number as practicable.
Classification of Directors
Section 2. . Subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to remove Directors (with or without cause) and fill the vacancies thereby created (as specified in any duly authorized certificate of designation of any series of Preferred Stock), no Director may be removed from office except for cause and the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the holders of any class or series of capital stock are entitled by the provisions of this Certificate (including any duly authorized certificate of designation of any series of Preferred Stock) to elect one or more Directors, such Director or Directors so elected may be removed with or without cause by the vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of that class or series entitled to vote.
Removal
Section 3. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to remove Directors and fill the vacancies thereby created (as specified in any duly authorized certificate of designation of any series of Preferred Stock) and subject to ARTICLE SEVEN, vacancies occurring on the Board of Directors for any reason may be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining members of the Board of Directors, although less than a quorum, at any meeting of the Board of Directors. A person so elected by the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy shall hold office until the next election of the class for which such Directors shall have been chosen and until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
Vacancies
Meetings of stockholders may be held within or without the State of Delaware, as the By-laws may provide. The books of the Corporation may be kept (subject to any provision contained in the Delaware General Corporation Law) outside of the State of Delaware at such place or places as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or in the By-laws of the Corporation.
Subject to the rights of holders of any series of Preferred Stock to act by written consent as specified in any duly authorized certificate of designation of any series of Preferred Stock, the stockholders of the Corporation may not take any action by written consent in lieu of a meeting, and must take any actions at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and the power of stockholders to consent in writing without a meeting is specifically denied. Except as otherwise required by law, special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation may be called only by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority of the total number of Directors then in office, by the chief executive officer of the Corporation or, if there is no chief executive officer, by the most senior executive officer of the Corporation.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Certificate or any provisions of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of the capital stock required by law or this Certificate (including any duly authorized certificate of designation of any series of Preferred Stock), the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the combined voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the Corporation eligible to be cast in the election of Directors generally shall be required to alter, amend or repeal or ARTICLES NINE, TEN or TWELVE hereof, or this ARTICLE THIRTEEN, or any provision thereof or hereof.
The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders, Directors or any other person herein are granted subject to this reservation.
The Corporation expressly elects to be governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned on behalf of the Corporation for the purpose of amending and restating the Certificate of Incorporation pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, under penalties of perjury does hereby declare and certify that this is the act and deed of the Corporation and the facts stated herein are true, and accordingly has hereunto signed this Certificate of Restated Certificate of Incorporation this 29th day of July, 2009.
NRG Energy, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation
By: Name: Michael R. Bramnick Title: Senior Vice President and General Counsel
/s/ Michael R. Bramnick


