FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20090730064547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 30, 2009, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 30, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Second Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported net income for the three months ended June 30, 2009 of $433 million, or $1.56 per diluted common share, compared to $127 million, or $0.48 per diluted common share, for the second quarter last year. The current quarter's results benefited both from the May 1, 2009 acquisition of Reliant Energy, which contributed $233 million in after tax income in its first two months of NRG ownership, and from a $128 million after-tax gain on the sale of MIBRAG. Last year's second quarter net income included a $168 million after-tax gain on the sale of Itiquira Energetica S.A., or ITISA. Income from continuing operations before taxes was $582 million during the second quarter of 2009, a $676 million increase over the $94 million loss in the second quarter of 2008. The increase in income from continuing operations, in addition to Reliant Energy's contribution, is primarily attributed to $118 million in unrealized mark-to-market (MtM) gains in the current quarter compared with $533 million in unrealized MtM losses in the second quarter of 2008. Operating expenses for the second quarter of 2009 included $4 million in Exelon defense costs, $21 million of acquisition costs and $2 million of integration costs associated with the Company's acquisition and integration of Reliant Energy.
PRINCETON, NJ; July 30, 2009
Net income for the first half of 2009 was $631 million or $2.27 per diluted common share, compared to $176 million or $0.63 per diluted common share, for the same period last year. Income from continuing operations before taxes was $1,078 million for the first half of 2009, a $1,073 million increase from $5 million in the first half of 2008. The increase in 2009 reflects the $389 million of unrealized MtM gains in the first half compared to $693 million of unrealized MtM losses in the first half of 2008. Operating expenses for the first six months of 2009 included $9 million in Exelon defense costs, $33 million of acquisition costs and $2 million of integration costs associated with the Company's acquisition of Reliant Energy.
Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM impacts, was $747 million for the second quarter of 2009 compared to $683 million in the second quarter of 2008. The $64 million quarter-over-quarter increase was driven by Reliant Energy's adjusted EBITDA contribution of $230 million in 2009 offset by a $166 million decrease in the wholesale portfolio, primarily the Texas Region. For the first half of 2009 and 2008, adjusted EBITDA was approximately $1.2 billion for both years as the inclusion of Reliant Energy's results offset lower power prices and generation across the wholesale fleet in 2009.
Cash flow from operations was $722 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009, a $286 million increase from the same period in 2008. The return of collateral posted last year due to higher gas
1
 
and power prices in the first half of 2008 coupled with the normal roll off of existing commercial trade positions was the primary contributor to the increase. The first half of 2009's strong operating cash flows added to the Company's record liquidity level providing the foundation for our recently increased $500 million share buyback program.
Plant operations continued to deliver strong performance during 2009 as baseload equivalent availability factor (EAF), improved to 90.4% from 89.0% in the second quarter of 2008. Newly constructed control systems on Huntley 67 & 68 and Dunkirk 3 & 4 are operating as planned. NRG's baseload operations met the record June power demand in the ERCOT market by achieving an EAF of 99% and net capacity factor of 96%. Additionally, NRG's Cedar Bayou unit 4 repowering project achieved commercial operation in June and was immediately available to help meet the increased power demand in ERCOT by achieving 99% availability and an 82% capacity factor.
Total generation, however, declined 13% and 20% in our baseload and gas fleets respectively, driven by the economic slowdown, an unseasonably cool start to summer in the Northeast, lower natural gas prices, and the scheduled outages to install environmental back-end controls at Dunkirk. These conditions were partially offset by the warm dry weather in Texas which led to the record power demand in ERCOT.
"Exceptional execution across all phases of the Company's business enabled us to overcome economic headwinds and achieve both record first half financial results and significant enhancements to NRG's business platform," commented David Crane, NRG President and Chief Executive Officer. "We are now focused intently on achieving an even stronger financial result in the second half of 2009."
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 1: Three Months Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes
2
 
Table 2: Adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts
MtM Impacts of Hedging Activities
The Company, in the normal course of business, enters into contracts to lock in forward prices for a significant portion of its expected power generation and to fulfill Reliant Energy's supply requirements. Although these transactions are predominantly economic hedges of our generation portfolio and load requirements, a portion of these forward sales and purchases are not afforded hedge accounting treatment and the MtM change in value of these transactions is recorded to current period earnings. For the second quarter of 2009, we recorded a $152 million forward net MtM gain representing the net difference between the fair value of our economic hedges and the $193 million reversal of previously recognized unrealized losses on settled positions. In the second quarter of 2008, there were $543 million net domestic MtM losses caused by a period of increasing power and natural gas prices and $333 million associated with ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges.
During the first half of 2009 we recognized $484 million of MtM gains with $307 million associated with economic hedges that increased in value due to falling gas and power prices. In contrast, the first half of 2008 experienced $713 million in net MtM losses of which $378 million was driven by ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges. The sharp increase in the market price of natural gas caused the forward MtM losses and ineffectiveness in 2008, primarily during the second quarter. Power prices rose across all of NRG's regions during the 2008 quarter, but at a slower rate than natural gas prices, resulting in the hedge ineffectiveness during the period.
The results for Reliant Energy include operations for the last two months of the quarter as NRG closed the acquisition of Reliant Energy on May 1, 2009. During the quarter, Reliant Energy's adjusted EBITDA totaled $230 million driven by strong margins across the retail segment and accompanied by high customer usage from warmer weather, which was slightly offset by a decrease in customer count. The solid second quarter margins are a result of the lag between falling energy supply costs, driven by the significant decline in natural gas prices since mid 2008. Immediately after closing the transaction, Reliant Energy lowered prices by 10% on select residential
Reliant Energy:
3
 
customer segments, and in June announced another rate reduction of up to 20% for residential customers on month-to-month flex plans. Total revenues, excluding contract amortization, for the quarter were $1,250 million on 10,431 GWh sold to both Commercial and Industrial and to Mass customers. Cost of energy, excluding unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts for energy supply, totaled $930 million, resulting in a gross margin of $320 million. Other operating expenses incurred during the quarter totaled $90 million and included $25 million of expenses associated with the call center; billing, credit and collections; $40 million of selling, general and administrative expense; $16 million of gross receipts tax; and $9 million of bad debt expense.
Texas adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2009 decreased by $169 million to $346 million compared to the second quarter of 2008. During 2008, the region benefited from higher natural gas prices and heat rates caused by congestion between zones. Further realized power prices were $17/MWh higher along with 342,000 more MWh sold resulting in $114 million higher energy margins in the second quarter in 2008 versus 2009. Emission sales allocated to the Texas region were $10 million higher during the second quarter of 2008 compared to 2009. In addition, during the second quarter of 2008, CPS reimbursed NRG for $7 million of development costs associated with STP 3&4 that were included in last year's EBITDA.
Texas:
The Northeast region's adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2009 was $117 million, a $4 million increase compared to the same quarter in 2008. Energy margins were $13 million higher in 2009 as the contributions realized from our hedging program and contract revenue more than offset lower market prices and reduced generation. Generation in the second quarter of 2009 was 50% lower compared to 2008 resulting in a $39 million decrease to energy margin. This was offset by an increase of $24 million in contract revenue due to lower cost to serve load obligations and a $29 million increase in realized margin per MWh due to the portfolio hedging.
Northeast:
The region's adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2009 was $24 million, a $6 million increase compared to the same quarter in 2008. The gain in EBITDA was driven by decreases in maintenance costs of $4 million and general and administrative costs of $2 million. Maintenance expenses were down as the spring outage in 2009 was on Big Cajun unit 3, a jointly owned unit with Entergy where costs are shared, while the 2008 spring outage was on unit 1. Decreases in generation, contract revenue, and merchant sales were essentially offset by gains from reduced purchased power expenses and unrealized MtM gains related to the expected physical merchant sales in the region.
South Central:
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table 3: Corporate Liquidity
4
 
Total liquidity, excluding counterparty collateral received, increased $939 million to over $4 billion during the second quarter driven by a $1.1 billion increase in cash and cash equivalents offset by a $159 million reduction in synthetic and revolver credit facilities. The increase in cash and cash equivalents during the quarter was principally driven by $678 million in cash proceeds from the issuance of the Company's 8.5% senior notes due in 2019, $260 million in net proceeds from the sale of MIBRAG, and a $50 million capital contribution from Toshiba to Nuclear Innovation North America (NINA). These cash inflows were offset by the $288 million acquisition of Reliant Energy as well as $63 million for the first reimbursement to RRI Energy for the net working capital acquired. NRG's synthetic letter of credit facility was lower due to issuing $81 million in support of the equity bridge loan associated with the GenConn financing. The $59 million letter of credit posting from the revolver credit facility during the quarter was related to the tax-exempt bonds issued to help finance the environmental capital expenditures at Dunkirk.
The Merrill Lynch credit sleeve that is used to support Reliant's liquidity requirements is expected to be replaced through the use of existing liquidity in the late third quarter or early fourth quarter of 2009. At that time NRG anticipates using a portion of the $678 million cash proceeds from the second quarter senior notes issuance to provide for Reliant's liquidity needs.
Funds deposited by counterparties consist of cash received from hedge counterparties in support of energy risk management activities, and it is the Company's intention to limit the use of these funds. Depending on market fluctuations and the settlement of the underlying contracts, NRG will refund these funds to the hedge counterparties as the underlying positions settle. The decrease to $468 million resulted primarily from the novation of collateral positions to Merrill Lynch shortly after the Reliant Energy acquisition in order to reduce the collateral support under the Merrill Lynch amended credit sleeve agreement.
FOR
NRG Update  Accomplishes 2009 Goal Ahead of Schedule
NRG 2.0 targets a 100 basis point improvement in the Company's Return on Invested Capital, or ROIC, by 2012. The improvements are expected to be accomplished by a combination of higher earnings and efficiencies in invested capital. The 2009 goal is a 20 basis point improvement in ROIC. As of June 30, 2009, NRG had exceeded its 2009 goal by achieving a 23 basis point improvement through improved plant operating performance coupled with projects undertaken by corporate functions that included accelerating the ability to utilize tax loss carry-forwards and the sale of non-strategic assets.
FOR
2009 Share Repurchase Plan
Given the combination of record financial performance and record liquidity level at June 30, 2009, the Board of Directors approved an increase to the Company's previously authorized common share repurchases under our 2009 Capital Allocation Plan from the existing $330 million to $500 million. The Company intends to complete the common share repurchases over the balance of the year.
Repowering
NRG
In May 2009, GenConn Energy, a 50-50 joint venture between NRG and The United Illuminating Company, began construction of a 200 MW peaking power plant at NRG's Devon site in Milford, Connecticut scheduled to be in operation in the summer of 2010. Previously GenConn Energy announced a $534 million project financing for two 200 MW projects, including the project at the Devon Site. The second project will be at NRG's Middletown station with construction scheduled
5
 
to begin in the first quarter of 2010 and commercial operation expected to begin in the summer of 2011.
On June 1, 2009, NRG completed an agreement with eSolar to acquire the development rights for up to 465 MW of solar thermal power plants. On June 11, 2009 NRG announced the execution of a power purchase agreement for 92 MW with El Paso Electric for a facility in southern New Mexico. This was followed on June 25, 2009, when NRG entered into a power purchase agreement with PG&E for a 92 MW project near Lancaster, CA.
On June 24, 2009, NRG and Optim Energy completed construction on budget and on time  in less than 24 months  and began commercial operation of a new 550 MW natural gas-fueled combined cycle generation unit at NRG's Cedar Bayou Generating Station in Chambers County, Texas.
Earnings Conference Call
On July 30, 2009, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. Investors, the news media and others may access the live webcast of the conference call and accompanying presentation materials by logging on to NRG's website at and clicking on "Investors." The webcast will be archived on the site for those unable to listen in real time.
http://www.nrgenergy.com
About NRG
NRG Energy, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, owns and operates one of the country's largest and most diverse power generation portfolios. Headquartered in Princeton, NJ, the Company's power plants provide more than 24,000 megawatts of generation capacityenough to supply more than 20 million homes. NRG's retail business, Reliant Energy, serves more than 1.6 million residential, business, commercial and industrial customers in Texas. A past recipient of the energy industry's highest honorsPlatts Industry Leadership and Energy Company of the Year awards. NRG is a member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), a group of business and environmental organizations calling for mandatory legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. More information is available at .
www.nrgenergy.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include our adjusted EBITDA, cash flow from operations guidance and free cash flow, the timing and completion of projects, the 2009 Capital Allocation Plan and expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide processes, our ability to achieve the expected benefits and timing of our NRG projects, acquisitions, dispositions and other development projects as well as the 2009 Capital Allocation Plan, share repurchase under the Capital Allocation Plan may be made from time to time subject to market conditions and other factors, including as permitted by United States securities laws.
RepoweringNRG
Repowering
6
 
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance, cash flow from operations and free cash flow are estimates as of today's date, July 30, 2009 and are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
www.sec.gov
Contacts:
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
Appendix Table A-1: Second Quarter 2009 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
11
 
Appendix Table A-2: Second Quarter 2008 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
12
 
Appendix Table A-3: Year-to-date June 30, 2009 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
13
 
Appendix Table A-4: Year-to-date June 30, 2008 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are non GAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
14
 
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; Exelon defense costs, and Texas retail acquisition and integration costs; and factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
15


