FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20091029064111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 29, 2009, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:
October 29, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Financial Highlights
Capital Allocation
Guidance
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported net income for the three months ended September 30, 2009, of $278 million, or $1.02 per diluted common share, compared to $778 million, or $2.81 per diluted common share, for the third quarter last year. The current quarter benefited from Reliant Energy's results which contributed $393 million in pre-tax income, while the third quarter results in 2008 benefited from $824 million of pre-tax net mark-to-market gains on asset-backed hedges. Non-recurring operating expenses for the third quarter of 2009 included $21 million for Exelon defense costs and $6 million of transaction and integration costs associated with the Company's acquisition of Reliant Energy. Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM impacts, was a record of $906 million for the third quarter of 2009 compared to $682 million in the third quarter of 2008. The $224 million quarter-over-quarter increase was driven by Reliant Energy's adjusted EBITDA contribution of $306 million partially offset by an $82 million decrease in the wholesale portfolio results.
PRINCETON, NJ; October 29, 2009
Net income for the first nine months of 2009 was $909 million, or $3.29 per diluted common share, compared to $954 million, or $3.41 per diluted common share, for the same period last year. Non-recurring operating expenses for the first nine months of 2009 included $31 million of Exelon defense costs and $41 million of transaction and integration costs associated with the Company's acquisition of Reliant Energy on May 1, 2009. Adjusted EBITDA for the first nine months of 2009 was a record $2,129 million compared to $1,889 million over the same period in 2008. This $240 million increase was driven by Retail Energy's contribution of $536 million offset by a $296 million decline in the performance of the wholesale portfolio, primarily in the Texas and South Central regions.
Cash flow from operations was $1,280 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, a $194 million increase from the same period in 2008. This increase was attributable to the financial
 
 
performance from Reliant Energy. Cash flow also benefited from first quarter collateral returns partially offset by collateral posting obligations under the Merrill Lynch Credit Sleeve. In addition, pension contributions were $35 million lower mainly due to a prepayment in 2008 related to 2009 contributions.
Total generation declined 8% in the third quarter of 2009 compared to 2008, which included a 13% decline in baseload generation. Lower baseload generation attributable to market factors, particularly in the Northeast, had minimal financial impact on the quarter as the portfolio had been fully hedged. Maintenance and unplanned outages during the quarter, primarily in Texas, contributed to the lower generation and impacted the quarter's results. This decrease also was partially offset by a 47% increase in gas fleet generation in Texas primarily due to the newly constructed Cedar Bayou Unit 4 plant.
"NRG's record financial performance has been achieved in the most challenging commodity price and economic environment NRG has ever experienced. Our ability to operate and hedge our generation assets coupled with our financial strength and ability to respond quickly to market opportunities such as the Reliant acquisition sets us apart," commented David Crane, NRG President and Chief Executive Officer. "As we look forward, while the commodity price environment remains challenging in 2010, the opportunities in our sector to enhance shareholder value for a Company in NRG's strong position are immense through our various internal growth opportunities already underway. We are working hard to repeat the success of 2009 in 2010."
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 1: Three Months Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes
2
 
Table 2: Adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts
MtM Impacts of Hedging Activities
The Company, in the normal course of business, enters into contracts to lock in forward prices for a significant portion of its expected power generation and to fulfill Reliant Energy's supply requirements. Although these transactions are predominantly economic hedges of our generation portfolio and load requirements, a portion of these forward sales and purchases are not afforded hedge accounting treatment and the MtM change in value of these transactions is recorded to current period earnings. For the third quarter of 2009, we recorded a $16 million forward net MtM gain on our economic hedges, as reversals of previously unrecognized gains and positions acquired as part of the Reliant acquisition offset the net unrealized losses on open positions related to economic hedges. In the third quarter of 2008, there were $824 million net MtM gains on our economic hedges caused by a period of rapidly decreasing power and natural gas prices, including $479 million of unrealized gains on open positions related to economic hedges and $352 million of gains associated with ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges.
During the first nine months of 2009, the Company recognized $502 million of net MtM gains with $448 million associated with the reversal of positions acquired as part of the Reliant acquisition. The same period during 2008 experienced $112 million in net MtM gains, of which $171 million of gains on open positions related to economic hedges.
Reliant Energy's adjusted EBITDA for the quarter totaled $306 million due to strong margins accompanied by high customer usage from warmer than normal weather, slightly offset by a decrease in customer count. Reliant announced and enacted price reductions effective June 1 and July 1, 2009, which cumulatively lowered prices by up to 20% for certain customers. Despite higher weather-related demand, power purchase costs remained low during the quarter, thereby enabling higher customer margins. Total revenues for the quarter, excluding contract amortization and unrealized gains and losses, were $1,876 million on 16 TWh sold to both Commercial and Industrial and Mass customers. Cost of energy, excluding contract amortization and unrealized gains and losses on derivative contracts for energy supply, totaled $1,433 million, resulting in a gross margin of $443 million. Other operating expenses incurred during the quarter totaled $136 million and included $37 million of expenses associated with the call center and billing,
Reliant Energy:
3
 
credit, and collections; $48 million of selling, general and administrative expense; $24 million of gross receipts tax; and $28 million of bad debt expense.
Texas adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2009 decreased by $61 million to $404 million compared to the third quarter of 2008. During the quarter, power prices in the Houston Zone, where the majority of our assets are located, were less than half those in the same quarter of 2008. Although NRG's hedging program insulated the region's baseload fleet from these significant price movements, the margins realized on our gas assets in 2008 were not repeated in 2009 despite higher generation. The combined impact of lower power prices and fuel costs resulted in $63 million of lower quarter-over-quarter energy margins. Baseload generation declined compared to 2008 due to maintenance and unplanned outages. Generation from the gas fleet increased quarter-over-quarter with Cedar Bayou Unit 4, which came on line in late June of this year, contributing 454k MWh of generation in addition to strong operating performance from the remainder of the gas fleet. Operating costs increased quarter-over-quarter by $10 million, including a $4 million increase at STP largely due to a Unit 2 outage in September 2009 and higher O&M costs at our WA Parish and Limestone plants.
Texas:
The Northeast region's adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2009 was $168 million, a $27 million increase compared to the same quarter in 2008. Energy margins were $36 million higher in 2009 as the contributions realized from our hedging program and contract revenue more than offset lower market prices and reduced generation. Generation in the third quarter of 2009 was 30% lower than 2008 resulting in a $45 million energy margin decrease. This decrease was offset by $18 million in higher contract revenues due to lower cost to serve load obligations and a $63 million increase in realized margin per MWh due to portfolio hedging.
Northeast:
Third quarter 2009 adjusted EBITDA was $4 million, $43 million lower than the same period in 2008. The decline in adjusted EBITDA was largely driven by unrealized gains in 2008 related to forward physical power sales that were delivered in 2009. The region's quarterly results were also impacted by higher operating expenses as additional plant maintenance was performed, including a 28 day outage on Big Cajun Unit 1 versus a 21 day outage on Unit 2 in the prior period.
South Central:
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table 3: Corporate Liquidity
Total liquidity, excluding counterparty collateral received, decreased $90 million to $3.9 billion during the third quarter driven by a $32 million decrease in cash and cash equivalents and a $65 million reduction in synthetic and revolver credit facilities. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the quarter was principally driven by $186 million in capital expenditures, $232 million in
4
 
cash collateral sweeps to reduce Reliant Energy's exposure with Merrill Lynch, and $250 million of common share repurchases. These cash outflows were partially offset by $558 million in cash flow from operations. The decrease in letters of credit and revolver credit facilities were primarily in support of commercial operations trade positions.
2009 Share Repurchase Plan
During the third quarter of 2009, the Company purchased 8,919,100 of its common shares in open market transactions at a volume weighted average cost of $28.01 per share, for a total of $250 million. Currently, the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $500 million of its common shares and intends to complete the remaining $250 million of repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2009. The Company has repurchased an aggregate of $2.2 billion of its common shares at a weighted average cost of $23.91 per share since embarking on common share repurchases in December 2004.
Credit Sleeve Unwound One Year Early
On October 5, 2009, the Company amended the Credit Sleeve and Reimbursement Agreement (CSRA) with Merrill Lynch that provided credit support to Reliant Energy's operations. As a result of this amendment, the Reliant Energy retail entities became part of the corporate collateral package and its credit support needs are now provided by the Company's corporate level liquidity. In connection with the credit sleeve unwind, NRG had a net cash collateral outflow of $374 million to various counterparties with the funds sourced from the June 5, 2009, bond offering that raised approximately $678 million in net proceeds. Simultaneously, Merrill Lynch terminated their liens on approximately $322 million of unrestricted cash held at Reliant Energy, and returned $250 million of posted cash collateral. The CSRA was originally scheduled to mature in October 2010.
Outlook for 2009
Full year 2009 Adjusted EBITDA guidance is estimated to be $2,575 million for the year, a $75 million increase from the guidance issued on July 30, 2009. This increase in guidance is attributable to a $225 million improvement in the Reliant Energy outlook driven by higher than expected summer demand and margins, partially offset by a $150 million decline in the wholesale portfolio as a result of a weak commodity pricing environment and higher operating costs.
In addition to the above, and in connection with the early unwind of the Merrill Lynch Credit Sleeve, certain economic hedges were terminated in the fourth quarter of 2009 prior to their normal maturity. This early settlement resulted in a realized $85 million mark-to-market loss to 2009 results. These charges are expected to be recorded in the fourth quarter 2009 results.
5
 
Table 4: 2009 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA Guidance ($ in millions)
Outlook for 2010
NRG is initiating 2010 Adjusted EBITDA and Cash Flow from Operations guidance at $2,200 million and $1,350 million, respectively. The outlook for the wholesale operations is a result of lower hedged prices on the overall portfolio in 2010 compared to 2009 and increased coal transportation costs in 2010. Reliant Energy's outlook for 2010 will be lower than 2009 results due to lower margins as a result of the two price reductions that occurred in the summer of 2009, increased supply costs as gas prices are expected to be higher in 2010 versus 2009, and normalized weather conditions.
Table 5: 2010 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA Guidance ($ in millions)
Earnings Conference Call
6
 
On October 29, 2009, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. Investors, the news media and others may access the live webcast of the conference call and accompanying presentation materials by logging on to NRG's website at and clicking on "Investors." The webcast will be archived on the site for those unable to listen in real time.
http://www.nrgenergy.com
NRG Energy, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, owns and operates one of the country's largest and most diverse power generation portfolios. Headquartered in Princeton, NJ, the Company's power plants provide more than 24,000 megawatts of generation capacity  enough to supply more than 20 million homes. NRG's retail business, Reliant Energy, serves more than 1.6 million residential, business, and commercial and industrial customers in Texas. A past recipient of the energy industry's highest honors  Platts Industry Leadership and Energy Company of the Year awards  NRG is a member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), a group of business and environmental organizations calling for mandatory legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. More information is available at .
About NRG
www.nrgenergy.com
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include our adjusted EBITDA, cash flow from operations guidance and free cash flow, the 2009 Capital Allocation Plan and expected earnings, future growth and financial performance, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide processes, our ability to achieve the expected benefits and timing of our NRG projects, acquisitions, dispositions and other development projects as well as the 2009 Capital Allocation Plan, share repurchase under the Capital Allocation Plan may be made from time to time subject to market conditions and other factors, including as permitted by United States securities laws.
Repowering
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance, cash flow from operations and free cash flow are estimates as of today's date, October 29, 2009 and are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
www.sec.gov
Contacts:
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
Appendix Table A-1: Third Quarter 2009 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
12
 
Appendix Table A-2: Third Quarter 2008 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
13
 
Appendix Table A-3: Year-to-date September 30, 2009 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
14
 
Appendix Table A-4: Year-to-date September 30, 2008 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non GAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for discontinued operations, write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; Exelon defense costs, and Texas retail acquisition and integration costs; and factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it
15
 
appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
Free cash flow recurring operations is cash flow from operations less maintenance capital expenditures and preferred stock dividends and is used by NRG predominantly as a forecasting tool to estimate cash available for debt reduction and other capital allocation alternatives. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. In addition, in evaluating free cash flow recurring operations, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this presentation. Free cash flow is cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, preferred stock dividends and repowering capital expenditures net of project funding and is used by NRG predominantly as a forecasting tool to estimate cash available for debt reduction and other capital allocation alternatives. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. Because we have mandatory debt service requirements (and other non-discretionary expenditures) investors should not rely on free cash flow as a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures. In addition, in evaluating free cash flow, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
16


