FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20090717152829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     This Current Report on Form 8-K/A ("Form 8-K/A") amends the Form 8-K filed by NRG Energy, Inc. ("NRG") on May 7, 2009 (the "Original 8-K") to include the information required by Item 9.01 of the Form 8-K in connection with NRG's recent acquisition of the Texas electric retail business operations ("Reliant Retail") of RRI Energy, Inc. (formerly known as Reliant Energy, Inc., and referred to herein as RRI).
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Financial statements of businesses acquired
     Reliant Retail constituted substantially all of the business of RERH Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries ("RERH"), a wholly owned subsidiary of RRI. Accordingly, the audited consolidated balance sheets of RERH as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of operations, members' equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K/A and are incorporated herein by reference. In addition, the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of RERH as of March 31, 2009, and the related condensed consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, are included as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A and are incorporated herein by reference.
     NRG did not acquire the portions of the business reported under RERH related to retail markets outside of Texas. In addition, NRG acquired a power purchase agreement on a wind farm in Texas, as well as related Renewable Energy Certificates and hedges, which were not part of RERH. Elimination of the specified assets and liabilities that were not acquired or assumed, and the addition of the specified assets acquired and liabilities assumed that were not part of RERH, are depicted in pro forma financial statements presenting the effects of the acquisition, as set forth in Item 9.01(b) below.
(b) Pro forma financial information
          The following unaudited pro forma financial information presenting the effects of the acquisition is filed as Exhibit 99.3 to this Form 8-K/A and incorporated herein by reference:
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 23
The Board of Directors and Members RERH Holdings, LLC:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-157351) and on Form S-8 (333-114007, 333-135973, and 333-151992) of NRG Energy, Inc. of our report dated February 28, 2009, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of RERH Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of operations, members' equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, which report appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of NRG Energy, Inc. dated July 17, 2009. Our report with respect to the consolidated financial statements refers to changes in accounting in 2008 for fair value measurements of financial instruments and fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement and related amounts recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral. In addition, the Company changed its accounting for income tax uncertainties in 2007.
/s/ KPMG LLP Houston, Texas July 15, 2009

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Members
RERH Holdings, LLC:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of RERH Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of operations, members' equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of RERH Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
As discussed in notes 2(e) and 2(f) to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its accounting in 2008 for fair value measurements of financial instruments and fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement and related amounts recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral, respectively. In addition, as discussed in note 7(d) to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its accounting for income tax uncertainties in 2007.
 
KPMG LLP
 
Houston, Texas
February 28, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  RERH Holdings, LLC is a Delaware limited liability company, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Reliant Energy, Inc. and was formed in July 2006. However, no activity occurred until December 1, 2006. The transfer of Reliant Energy Retail Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries by Reliant Energy, Inc. into RERH Holdings, LLC is a transfer of equity interests between entities under common control. Accordingly, the results of operations of RERH Holdings, LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries (RERH Holdings) reflect the transfer as if it occurred at the beginning of 2006. "Reliant Energy" refers to Reliant Energy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Reliant Energy, Inc. is the sole Class A member and holds all 1,000 membership units of that class of RERH Holdings, LLC. In connection with the credit-enhanced retail structure, Merrill Lynch Commodities, Inc. owns one Class B membership unit, which is all of the issued and outstanding units of that class for RERH Holdings, LLC. The Class B member has only limited rights to vote on certain matters and no interest in profits and losses.
Background.
 
In preparation for and in connection with the credit-enhanced retail structure, RERH Holdings made ownership changes relating to entities, assets and liabilities during 2006. The following occurred (related amounts are included on the consolidated statements of members' equity and comprehensive income):
 
 
During 2007, RERH Holdings completed the inclusion of business in the PJM area (defined below) in the credit-enhanced retail structure. The following occurred (related amounts are included on the consolidated statements of members' equity and comprehensive income):
 
 
RERH Holdings provides electricity and energy services to retail electricity customers in Texas, including residential and small business (mass) customers and commercial, industrial and governmental/institutional (C&I) customers. RERH Holdings' next largest market was the market operated by PJM Interconnection, LLC, primarily in New Jersey, Maryland, the District of Columbia and Pennsylvania (PJM area). Approximately 65% of RERH Holdings' residential and small business customers are in the Houston area.
 
In connection with RERH Holdings' intention to wind down the credit-enhanced retail structure with Merrill Lynch and to reduce future collateral posting obligations (as discussed in note 5), RERH Holdings decided during the fourth quarter of 2008 to exit the C&I portion of its business either through a wind down or sale of its C&I contracts. Except where RERH Holdings is contractually obligated to do so, RERH Holdings is no longer entering into contracts with new C&I customers and it does not expect to renew contracts with its current customers.
 
On December 31, 2008, RERH Holdings sold all of its Northeast (which consists of Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey and Pennsylvania) C&I contracts and is actively seeking to sell its Illinois C&I contracts. See note 11.
 
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2008, RERH Holdings, LLC's subsidiaries include:
 
 
  In October 2008, Reliant Energy's Board of Directors initiated a process to review strategic alternatives and formed a special committee to oversee this process. Reliant Energy is exploring a full range of possible strategic alternatives to enhance stockholder value, including, among other possibilities, the sale of all or substantially all of Reliant Energy, as well as the sale of some or all of its retail business (which includes RERH Holdings). For discussion of Reliant Energy's agreement to sell its interests in RERH Holdings, see note 12.
Review of Strategic Alternatives.
 
  These consolidated statements include all revenues and costs directly attributable to RERH Holdings including costs for facilities and costs for functions and services performed by Reliant Energy and charged to RERH Holdings. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
Basis of Presentation.
 
 
 
Management makes estimates and assumptions to prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) that affect:
 
 
RERH Holdings evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors, including the current economic environment, which RERH Holdings believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. RERH Holdings adjusts such estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate.
 
  (a) fair value of derivative assets and liabilities; (b) fair value of RERH Holdings for assessing impairments of recorded goodwill; (c) fair value of property, plant and equipment; (d) estimated revenues and energy supply costs; (e) loss contingencies and (f) deferred tax assets, valuation allowances and tax liabilities. Actual results could differ from the estimates.
RERH Holdings' critical accounting estimates include:
 
RERH Holdings is subject to various risks inherent in doing business. See notes 2(c),2(d), 2(e), 2(f), 2(g), 2(h), 2(i), 2(j), 2(m), 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12.
 
 
RERH Holdings, LLC includes its accounts and those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries in its consolidated financial statements.
 
 
Gross revenues for energy sales and services to residential and small business customers and to commercial, industrial and governmental/institutional customers are recognized upon delivery under the accrual method. Energy sales and services that have been delivered but not billed by period end are estimated. Gross revenues include energy
 
 
 
 
revenues from resales of purchased power and other hedging activities, which are $1.1 billion, $533 million and $123 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These revenues represent a sale of excess supply to third parties in the market.
 
As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, RERH Holdings recorded unbilled revenues of $481 million and $435 million, respectively, for energy sales and services. Accrued unbilled revenues are based on RERH Holdings' estimates of customer usage since the date of the last meter reading provided by the independent system operators or electric distribution companies. Volume estimates are based on daily forecasted volumes and estimated customer usage by class. Unbilled revenues are calculated by multiplying volume estimates by the applicable rate by customer class. Estimated amounts are adjusted when actual usage is known and billed.
 
The revenues and the related energy supply costs include the estimates of customer usage based on initial usage information provided by the independent system operators and the distribution companies. RERH Holdings revises these estimates and records any changes in the period as additional settlement information becomes available (collectively referred to as market usage adjustments).
 
 
RERH Holdings records energy supply costs for electricity sales and services to retail customers based on estimated supply volumes for the applicable reporting period. A portion of its energy supply costs ($83 million and $74 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively) consisted of estimated transmission and distribution charges not yet billed by the transmission and distribution utilities. In estimating supply volumes, RERH Holdings considers the effects of historical customer volumes, weather factors and usage by customer class. RERH Holdings estimates its transmission and distribution delivery fees using the same method that it uses for electricity sales and services to retail customers. In addition, RERH Holdings estimates Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Independent System Operator (ISO) fees based on historical trends, estimated supply volumes and initial ERCOT ISO settlements. Volume estimates are then multiplied by the supply rate and recorded as purchased power in the applicable reporting period. See the discussion above regarding market usage adjustments.
 
 
  Effective January 1, 2008, RERH Holdings adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS No. 157) on a prospective basis for its derivative assets and liabilities. In connection with the adoption, no cumulative effect of an accounting change was recognized. For non-financial assets and liabilities, the adoption of SFAS No. 157 was deferred until January 1, 2009. See note 2(p).
Summary.
 
  RERH Holdings applies recurring fair value measurements to its derivative assets and liabilities. In determining fair value, RERH Holdings generally uses the market approach and incorporates assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation techniques. These inputs can be readily observable, market corroborated, or generally unobservable internally-developed inputs. Based on the observability of the inputs used in the valuation techniques, the derivative assets and liabilities are classified as follows:
Fair Value Hierarchy and Valuation Techniques.
and/or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RERH Holdings values some of its OTC, complex or structured derivative instruments using valuation models, which utilize inputs that may not be corroborated by market data, such as market prices for power and fuel, market implied heat rates, load and price shapes, ancillary services, volatilities and correlations as well as other relevant factors as may be deemed appropriate. When such inputs are significant to the fair value measurement, the derivative assets or liabilities are classified as Level 3 when RERH Holdings does not have corroborating market evidence to support significant valuation model inputs and cannot verify the model to market transactions. RERH Holdings believes the transaction price is the best estimate of fair value at inception under the exit price methodology. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the resulting value is adjusted so the model value at inception equals the transaction price. Valuation models are typically impacted by Level 1 or Level 2 inputs that can be observed in the market, as well as unobservable Level 3 inputs. Subsequent to initial recognition, RERH Holdings updates Level 1 and Level 2 inputs to reflect observable market changes. Level 3 inputs are updated when corroborated by available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management's best estimate is used.
 
  In accordance with SFAS No. 157, fair value measurement of RERH Holdings' derivative liabilities reflects the nonperformance risk related to that liability, which is its own credit risk. RERH Holdings derives its nonperformance risk by applying Reliant Energy, Inc.'s credit default swap spread against the respective derivative liability. As of December 31, 2008, RERH Holdings had $81 million in reserves for nonperformance risk on derivative liabilities. This change in accounting estimate had an impact during 2008 as follows (income (loss)):
Nonperformance Risk on Derivative Liabilities.
 
 
 
 
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of changes in fair value of net derivative assets and liabilities classified as Level 3:
 
 
 
 
See note 2(f).
 
 
RERH Holdings accounts for its derivatives instruments and hedging activities in accordance with SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended (SFAS No. 133).
 
Changes in commodity prices prior to the energy delivery period are inherent in RERH Holding's business. RERH Holdings routinely enters derivative contracts to manage its purchase and sale commitments. Fixed-price derivatives are used to fix the price for a portion of these transactions. RERH Holdings uses derivative instruments such as futures, forwards, swaps and options to execute its retail supply procurement strategy.
 
RERH Holdings purchases substantially all of its Texas power supply requirements from third parties. RERH Holdings continues to focus its supply procurement strategy on (a) matching supply costs and supply timing with sales commitments, (b) managing periodic adjustments of physical supply to manage ongoing operational and customer usage changes and (c) managing procurement needs within available market liquidity.
 
For RERH Holdings' risk management activities, it uses both derivative and non-derivative contracts that provide for settlement in cash or by delivery of a commodity. The primary types of derivative instruments RERH Holdings uses are forwards, futures, swaps and options. RERH Holdings accounts for its derivatives under one of three accounting methods accrual accounting (under the normal purchase/normal sale exception to fair value accounting) or cash flow hedge accounting) based on facts and circumstances. The fair values of derivative activities are determined by (a) prices actively quoted, (b) prices provided by other external sources or (c) prices based on models and other valuation methods. See note 2(e) for discussion on fair value measurements.
(mark-to-market,
 
A derivative is recognized at fair value in the balance sheet whether or not it is designated as a hedge, except for derivative contracts designated as normal purchase/normal sale exceptions, which are not in the consolidated balance sheet or results of operations prior to settlement resulting in accrual accounting treatment.
 
Realized gains and losses on derivatives contracts not held for trading purposes are reported either on a net or gross basis based on the relevant facts and circumstances. Hedging transactions that do not physically flow are
 
 
 
 
included in the same caption as the items being hedged. A summary of RERH Holdings' derivative activities and classification in its results of operations is:
 
 
 
 
Unrealized gains and losses on energy derivatives consist of both gains and losses on energy derivatives during the current reporting period for derivative assets or liabilities that have not settled as of the balance sheet date and the reversal of unrealized gains and losses from prior periods for derivative assets or liabilities that settled prior to the balance sheet date but during the current reporting period.
 
In addition to market risk, RERH Holdings is exposed to credit and operational risk. Reliant Energy has a risk control framework, to which RERH Holdings is subject, to manage these risks, which include: (a) measuring and monitoring these risks, (b) review and approval of new transactions relative to these risks, (c) transaction validation and (d) portfolio valuation and reporting. RERH Holdings uses valuation, and other metrics in monitoring and measuring risk. Reliant Energy's risk control framework includes a variety of separate but complementary processes, which involve commercial and senior management and Reliant Energy's Board of Directors. See note 2(g) for further discussion of RERH Holdings' credit policy.
mark-to-market
value-at-risk
 
  If certain conditions are met, a derivative instrument may be designated as a cash flow hedge. Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges must have a high correlation between price movements in the derivative and the hedged item. The changes in fair value of cash flow hedges are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, to the extent the contracts are, or have been, effective as hedges, until the forecasted transactions affect earnings. At the time the forecasted transactions affect earnings, RERH Holdings reclassifies the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings. RERH Holdings records the ineffective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges immediately into earnings. For all other derivatives, changes in fair value are recorded as unrealized gains or losses in our results of operations.
Cash Flow Hedges.
 
If and when an acceptable level of correlation no longer exists, hedge accounting ceases and changes in fair value are recognized in the results of operations. If it becomes probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur, RERH Holdings immediately recognizes the related deferred gains or losses in its results of operations. The associated hedging instrument is then marked to market through the results of operations for the remainder of the contract term unless a new hedging relationship is redesignated.
 
As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, RERH Holdings does not have any designated cash flow hedges.
 
  RERH Holdings adopted on January 1, 2008. Upon adoption it elected to present its derivative assets and liabilities on a gross basis (regardless of master netting arrangements with the same counterparty). Cash collateral amounts are also presented on a gross basis. RERH Holdings applied retrospectively for all financial statements presented.
Presentation of Derivative Assets and Liabilities.
FIN 39-1
FIN 39-1
 
The effect to RERH Holdings December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet was as follows: (Noteonly line items impacted are shown.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
(g)  Credit Risk.
 
RERH Holdings has a credit policy that governs the management of credit risk, including the establishment of counterparty credit limits and specific transaction approvals. Credit risk is monitored daily and the financial condition of counterparties is reviewed periodically. RERH Holdings tries to mitigate credit risk by entering into contracts that permit netting and allow it to terminate upon the occurrence of certain events of default. RERH Holdings measures credit risk as the replacement cost for its derivative positions plus amounts owed for settled transactions.
 
RERH Holdings' credit exposure is based on its derivative assets and accounts receivable from its power supply counterparties, after taking into consideration netting within each contract and any master netting contracts with counterparties. RERH Holdings provides reserves for non-investment grade counterparties representing a significant portion of its credit exposure. As of December 31, 2008, RERH Holdings has no credit exposure. As of December 31, 2007, one non-investment grade counterparty represented 95% ($144 million) of RERH Holdings' credit exposure. As of December 31, 2007, RERH Holdings held no collateral from this counterparty.
 
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses include, among other items, (a) selling and marketing, (b) bad debt expense, (c) financial services, (d) legal costs, (e) regulatory costs, (f) certain benefit costs and (g) costs related to the unwind of the credit-enhanced retail structure. Some of the expenses are allocated from affiliates (see note 3).
 
 
 
 
 
RERH Holdings computes depreciation using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives. Depreciation expense was $22 million, $24 million and $29 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
 
RERH Holdings periodically evaluates property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. The evaluation is highly dependent on the underlying assumptions of related cash flows. RERH Holdings recorded no material property, plant and equipment impairments during 2008, 2007 and 2006.
 
 
  RERH Holdings performs its goodwill impairment test annually on April 1 and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. RERH Holdings continually assesses whether any indicators of impairment exist, which requires a significant amount of judgment. Such indicators may include a sustained significant decline in Reliant Energy, Inc.'s share price and market capitalization; a decline in expected future cash flows; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; overall weakness in the industry; and slower growth rates. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill and could have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Goodwill.
 
During April, RERH Holdings tested goodwill for impairment and determined that no impairment existed.
 
During the third and fourth quarters of 2008, given recent adverse changes in the business climate and the credit markets, Reliant Energy, Inc.'s market capitalization being lower than its book value during all of the fourth quarter and extending into 2009, Reliant Energy's review of strategic alternatives to enhance stockholder value and reductions in the expected near-term cash flows from operations, RERH Holdings reviewed its goodwill for impairment. RERH Holdings concluded that no goodwill impairment occurred as of September 30, 2008. As discussed below, as of December 31, 2008, RERH Holdings concluded that its goodwill of $32 million was not impaired.
 
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment based on a two-step test. In the first step, RERH Holdings compares its fair value with its net book value. RERH Holdings must apply judgment in determining the fair value for purposes of performing the goodwill impairment test because quoted market prices for its business are not available. In estimating the fair value, RERH Holdings uses a combination of an income approach and a market-based approach.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In weighting the results of the various valuation approaches, prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, RERH Holdings placed more emphasis on the income approach, using management's future cash flow projections and risk-adjusted discount rates. As RERH Holdings' earnings outlook declined, its earnings variability increased and Reliant Energy, Inc.'s market capitalization declined significantly in 2008, RERH Holdings increased the weighting of the estimates of fair value determined by market-based approaches. Further, the aggregate estimated fair value of Reliant Energy's reporting units was compared to its total market capitalization, adjusted for a control premium. A control premium is added to the market capitalization to reflect the value that exists with having control over an entire entity.
 
If the estimated fair value is higher than the recorded net book value, no impairment is considered to exist and no further testing is required. However, if the estimated fair value is below the recorded net book value, a second step must be performed to determine the goodwill impairment required, if any. In the second step, the estimated fair value from the first step is used as the purchase price in a hypothetical acquisition, which is then allocated to the entity's assets and liabilities in accordance with purchase accounting rules. The residual amount of goodwill that results from this hypothetical purchase price allocation is compared to the recorded amount of goodwill for the entity, and the recorded amount is written down to the hypothetical amount, if lower.
 
RERH Holdings estimates its fair value based on a number of subjective factors, including: (a) appropriate weighting of valuation approaches, as discussed above, (b) projections about future customer mix and related revenues, (c) estimates of future cost structure, (d) risk-adjusted discount rates for estimated cash flows, (e) selection of peer group companies for the public company market approach, (f) required level of working capital, (g) assumed EBITDA multiple for terminal values and (h) time horizon of cash flow forecasts. For the most recent reporting period, RERH Holdings determined that the recently announced sale to a subsidiary of NRG Energy, Inc. was the best estimate of its value. Using that measure, the fair value exceeded the book value and therefore, the goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2008.
 
As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, RERH Holdings had $14 million and $17 million, respectively, of goodwill that is deductible for United States income tax purposes in future periods.
 
  RERH Holdings recognizes specifically identifiable intangible assets, including renewable energy credits, when specific rights and contracts are acquired. RERH Holdings has no intangible assets with indefinite lives recorded as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.
Other Intangibles.
 
 
  RERH Holdings is included in the consolidated federal income tax returns of Reliant Energy and calculates its income tax provision on a separate return basis, whereby Reliant Energy pays all federal income taxes on RERH Holdings' behalf and is entitled to any related tax savings. The difference between RERH Holdings' current federal income tax expense or benefit, as calculated on a separate return basis, and related amounts paid to/received from Reliant Energy, if any, were recorded in RERH Holdings' financial statements as adjustments to members' equity. Reliant Energy changed its funding policy in January 2007 and these differences are recorded to (a) income taxes payable to Reliant Energy, Inc. if RERH Holdings has cumulative taxable income on a separate return basis or (b) deferred tax assets if RERH Holdings has cumulative taxable losses on a separate return basis. Deferred federal income taxes reflected on RERH Holdings' consolidated balance sheet will ultimately be settled with Reliant Energy. See notes 3 and 7.
Federal.
 
 
 
 
  RERH Holdings is included in the consolidated state income tax returns of Reliant Energy. It calculates its state provision, related payables or receivables and deferred state income taxes on a separate return basis and primarily settles the related assets and liabilities directly with the governmental entity. See note 7.
State.
 
 
RERH Holdings records all highly liquid short-term investments with maturities of three months or less as cash equivalents.
 
 
RERH Holdings accrues an allowance for doubtful accounts based on estimates of uncollectible revenues by analyzing counterparty credit ratings (for commercial and industrial customers), historical collections, accounts receivable agings and other factors. RERH Holdings writes-off accounts receivable balances against the allowance for doubtful accounts when it determines a receivable is uncollectible.
 
 
RERH Holdings records gross receipts taxes on a gross basis in revenues and operations and maintenance expense in its consolidated statements of operations. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, RERH Holdings' revenues and operation and maintenance expense include gross receipts taxes of $102 million, $97 million and $102 million, respectively.
 
 
RERH Holdings records sales taxes collected from its taxable customers and remitted to the various governmental entities on a net basis, thus there is no impact on its consolidated statements of operations.
 
 
  For some non-financial assets and liabilities, the effective date for SFAS No. 157 fair value measurement criteria is January 1, 2009. RERH Holdings does not expect the standard to have a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Fair Value Measurement for Non-Financial Assets and Liabilities.
 
  SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 161) is an amendment of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" and is intended to enhance the related qualitative and quantitative disclosures by providing for additional information about objectives, strategies, accounting treatment, volume by commodity type and credit-risk-related contingent features. SFAS No. 161 was adopted on January 1, 2009.
Disclosures about Derivatives and Hedging Activities.
 
 
These financial statements include the impact of significant transactions between RERH Holdings and Reliant Energy. The majority of these transactions involve the purchase or sale of energy, capacity or related services from or to RERH Holdings and allocations of costs to RERH Holdings for support services.
 
  Reliant Energy provides commercial support, technical services and other corporate services to RERH Holdings. Reliant Energy allocates certain support services costs to RERH Holdings based on RERH Holdings' underlying planned operating expenses relative to the underlying planned operating expenses of other entities to which Reliant Energy provides similar services and also charges RERH Holdings for certain other services based on usage. Management believes this method of allocation is reasonable. These allocations and charges were not necessarily indicative of what would have been incurred had RERH Holdings been an unaffiliated entity. Effective with the credit-enhanced retail structure, beginning December 1, 2006, Reliant
Support and Technical Services.
 
 
 
 
Energy charges a fee for these services calculated in the same manner and including a percentage of 1.5%, which was $1 million, $1 million and $0 during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
mark-up
 
The following details the amounts recorded as operation and maintenanceaffiliates and selling, general and administrativeaffiliates:
 
 
 
 
  Reliant Energy Retail Holdings, LLC transferred its interest in Reliant Energy Electric Solutions, LLC (REES) to Reliant Energy on January 1, 2005. During 2006 (through November 30, 2006), REES and Reliant Energy Services, Inc. (RES) primarily provided the energy supply services to RERH Holdings. The administrative costs for these services are included in the corporate support services allocations discussed above. Prior to December 1, 2006, REES and RES entered into contracts with third parties for the purposes of supplying RERH Holdings with some of the electricity necessary to serve its retail customers. RERH Holdings reimbursed REES and RES for the ultimate price of any electricity sold from REES/RES to RERH Holdings, including costs of derivative instruments, upon final delivery of that electricity. These supply contracts are subject to the provisions of the master commodity purchase and sale agreements, master netting arrangements and other contractual arrangements that REES and RES utilize with third-party customers and suppliers in connection with their supply portfolio management activities, including those activities undertaken for RERH Holdings. Effective December 1, 2006, RERH Holdings manages primarily all of its electricity supply portfolio directly with third parties.
Services from Reliant Energy Electric Solutions, LLC and Reliant Energy Services, Inc.
 
 
 
 
  Reliant Energy manages RERH Holdings' daily cash balances. Prior to the credit-enhanced retail structure, excess cash was advanced to Reliant Energy, which provided a cash management function, and was recorded in notes receivable from Reliant Energy, Inc. RERH Holdings recorded interest income or expense, based on whether RERH Holdings invested excess funds, or borrowed funds from Reliant Energy. The amount of net interest income was $104 million during 2006. During 2006, this note receivable was distributed to Reliant Energy as a non-cash equity distribution in the amount of $1.9 billion.
Notes ReceivableReliant Energy, Inc.
 
  In 2000, Reliant Energy acquired the naming rights, including advertising and other benefits, for a football stadium and other convention and entertainment facilities. Pursuant to this agreement, Reliant Energy is required to pay $10 million per year from 2002 through 2032. These costs are charged to RERH Holdings by Reliant Energy and are included in selling, general and administrative expense.
Naming Rights to Houston Sports Complex.
 
Cash Contributions From (Distributions to) Reliant Energy.
 
 
  See discussion in note 2(k) regarding RERH Holdings' policy with regards to income taxes.
Income Taxes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, RERH Holdings has $3 million and $21 million, respectively, recorded as taxes payable to Reliant Energy, Inc., which includes accrued interest payable of $3 million and $2 million, respectively. RERH Holdings has incurred interest expense related to this payable of $3 million and $7 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
  In connection with the unwind of the credit-enhanced retail structure with Merrill Lynch (as discussed in note 5), RERH Holdings entered into a derivative contract with Reliant Energy. This derivative is a 40 BCFe (billion cubic feet equivalent of natural gas) hedge that extends to December 2010. During 2008, RERH Holdings recognized $119 million unrealized loss and $30 million realized loss on this transaction. These amounts are included in cost of salesaffiliates on the statement of operations.
Derivative Liabilities.
 
 
 
In connection with the credit-enhanced retail structure, in December 2006, RERH Holdings entered into a $300 million working capital facility agreement with Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. and affiliates (Merrill Lynch). The working capital facility included a $150 million minimum adjusted EBITDA requirement for RERH Holdings for each trailing four-quarter period. In December 2008, RERH Holdings terminated this working capital facility. See notes 5 and 9 for discussion of the Merrill Lynch action related to the working capital facility.
 
 
RERH Holdings had a receivables facility arrangement to sell an undivided interest in accounts receivable from its business to financial institutions on an ongoing basis. In connection with the credit-enhanced retail structure, this agreement was terminated and RERH Holdings repaid $450 million on December 1, 2006.
 
The borrowings under the facility bore interest at floating rates that included fees based on the facility's level of commitment and utilization. RERH Holdings serviced the receivables and received a fee of 0.4% of cash collected during 2006, which approximated the actual service costs.
 
 
The credit sleeve and reimbursement agreement (the agreement) with Merrill Lynch became effective on December 1, 2006, which substantially eliminated collateral postings for RERH Holdings' business, although these collateral postings were historically made by Reliant Energy, not RERH Holdings. See discussion below regarding the decision to unwind the credit-enhanced retail structure.
 
Under the agreement, Merrill Lynch provides guarantees and the posting of collateral to RERH Holdings' counterparties in supply transactions for its retail energy business. Cash flow activity in connection with these contracts and related collateral is classified as operating cash flow. During 2006, RERH Holdings recorded an unrealized loss on energy derivatives of $18 million due to the differences in quantity between contracts with Merrill Lynch and its contracts with the exchange relating to existing financially settled supply contracts.
 
RERH Holdings paid Merrill Lynch one-time structuring fees of $14 million ($13 million in 2006 and $1 million in 2007), which were expensed as general and administrative costs. RERH Holdings also pays a fee to Merrill Lynch of $0.40 for each megawatt hour (MWh) of power that it delivers to its retail customers. This fee ($27 million, $26 million and $2 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively) is classified as interest expense. RERH Holdings is obligated to reimburse Merrill Lynch to the extent that any guarantees are called upon or any
 
 
 
 
collateral posted by Merrill Lynch is foreclosed upon in the event RERH Holdings does not meet its obligations to its suppliers. To date, RERH Holdings has not been required to reimburse Merrill Lynch for these items.
 
The initial term of the agreement was five years. The agreement includes an "evergreen" provision that automatically extends the term of the agreement unless either party gives notice to not extend. The current termination date is December 31, 2013. RERH Holdings is permitted to terminate at any time. Merrill Lynch does not have an early termination option.
 
In connection with the agreement, Reliant Energy implemented a structure so that the entities comprising its retail energy business became subsidiaries of RERH Holdings, LLC. The agreement (a) restricts the ability of RERH Holdings to, among other actions, (i) encumber its assets, (ii) sell certain assets, (iii) incur additional debt, (iv) pay dividends or pay subordinated debt, (v) make investments or acquisitions or (vi) enter into certain transactions with affiliates and (b) requires RERH Holdings to manage its risks related to commodity prices. RERH Holdings' obligations under the agreement with Merrill Lynch are secured by first liens on the assets of RERH Holdings. RERH Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries are designed to maintain the separate nature of their assets, avoid consolidation of such assets with the bankruptcy estate of Reliant Energy in the event Reliant Energy ever becomes subject to such a proceeding, and ensure that such assets are available first and foremost to satisfy their creditors' claims. The obligations of RERH Holdings under the agreement are non-recourse to Reliant Energy. See note 4(a) for discussion of the retail working capital facility.
 
The ongoing turmoil in the financial markets and uncertainty in the overall economic outlook have resulted in a significant increase in the cost and reduction in the availability of capital. The impact of this turmoil and uncertainty has been to increase Merrill Lynch's cost to perform under the credit-enhanced retail structure. To Reliant Energy, the credit-enhanced retail structure represents a significant concentration of credit risk with Merrill Lynch. As a result of this and because of disagreements with Merrill Lynch regarding the minimum adjusted retail EBITDA covenant in the working capital facility, in September 2008, RERH Holdings decided to pursue an orderly unwind of the credit-enhanced retail structure. To ensure that Reliant Energy would have sufficient capital to operate its retail energy business (primarily RERH Holdings) without the benefit of the credit-enhanced retail structure, Reliant Energy secured commitments for $1 billion in new capital.
 
In November 2008, RERH Holdings made the decision to exit the C&I portion of its business either through a wind down or sale of the C&I contracts, which will significantly reduce the long-term capital requirements for collateral and reached an agreement to sell its Northeast C&I contracts. See note 11. In connection with this decision, Reliant Energy terminated the $1 billion in new capital commitments. RERH Holdings incurred and expensed costs of $12 million (included in selling, general and administrative expenses) during 2008 in connection with these commitments and other events related to its decision to unwind the credit-enhanced retail structure.
 
In early December 2008, RERH Holdings exercised its right to terminate the Merrill Lynch $300 million retail working capital facility. No borrowings were outstanding under this facility. In late December 2008, Merrill Lynch filed a claim seeking a judgment declaring that under the credit sleeve and reimbursement agreement (the agreement) RERH Holdings did not have the right to terminate the working capital facility.
 
If Merrill Lynch is successful with its claim, it could seek to exercise remedies under the agreement. There is a range of possible remedies available to Merrill Lynch under the agreement, including, without limitation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, Merrill Lynch cannot require RERH Holdings to post collateral to replace its credit support for the existing business. It is uncertain whether Merrill Lynch would exercise any of its remedies.
 
Merrill Lynch stated in its December 2008 claim that, reserving all its rights, until further notice it intends to continue to perform under the credit-enhanced retail structure and provide credit enhancement to RERH Holdings in connection with its business. RERH Holdings and Reliant Energy intend to continue to pursue longer-term arrangements to unwind the credit-enhanced retail structure. See note 9.
 
RERH Holdings believes that its business will generate adequate operating cash flow to handle any collateral postings associated with an unwind of the agreement or Merrill Lynch's notification to counterparties that they will not provide collateral support for future transactions. RERH Holdings believes that a successful foreclosure is unlikely. However, a foreclosure would be material to RERH Holdings.
 
For discussion of Reliant Energy's agreement to sell its interests in RERH Holdings, see note 12.
 
 
RERH Holdings' eligible employees participate in Reliant Energy's stock-based incentive plans. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, RERH Holdings' pre-tax stock-based incentive plans compensation expense was $1 million, $6 million and $5 million, respectively.
 
RERH Holdings' employees participate in Reliant Energy's employee savings plans under Sections 401(a) and 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. RERH Holdings' savings plan benefit expense, including matching and discretionary contributions, was $7 million, $6 million and $4 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
 
 
RERH Holdings' income tax expense (benefit) is:
 
 
A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate is:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RERH Holdings assesses its future ability to use deferred tax assets using the more-likely-than-not criteria. These assessments include an evaluation of its recent history of earnings and losses, future reversals of temporary differences and identification of other sources of future taxable income, including the identification of tax planning strategies in certain situations. Based on the analysis, RERH Holdings determined that no valuation allowance is needed for its deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.
 
 
Effective January 1, 2007, RERH Holdings adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes," (FIN 48). This interpretation addresses whether (and when) tax benefits claimed in Reliant Energy's federal and RERH Holdings' state tax returns should be recorded in the financial statements. Pursuant to FIN 48, RERH Holdings may only recognize the tax benefit for financial reporting purposes from an uncertain tax position when it is more-likely-than-not that, based on the technical merits, the position will be sustained by taxing authorities or the courts. The recognized tax benefits are measured as the largest benefit having a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. RERH Holdings classifies accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain income tax positions in income tax expense. Adoption of FIN 48 had no impact on RERH Holdings' consolidated financial statements.
 
RERH Holdings has the following in its consolidated balance sheet (included in other current liabilities):
 
 
 
 
During 2008, 2007 and 2006, RERH Holdings recognized $0 of income tax expense (benefit) due to changes in interest and penalties for federal and state income taxes.
 
RERH Holdings has the following years that remain subject to examination or are currently under audit for its major tax jurisdictions:
 
 
RERH Holdings, through Reliant Energy, expects to continue discussions with taxing authorities regarding tax positions related to the following, and believe it is reasonably possible some of these matters could be resolved during 2009; however, it cannot estimate the range of changes that might occur:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  RERH Holdings' projected cash obligations under non-cancelable long-term operating leases as of December 31, 2008 are (in millions):
Cash Obligations Under Operating Leases.
 
 
  Total lease expense for all operating leases was $24 million, $12 million and $12 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Operating Lease Expense.
 
 
  RERH Holdings, LLC's equity is pledged as collateral under certain of Reliant Energy's credit and debt agreements, which have an outstanding balance of $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2008.
Equity Pledged as Collateral for Reliant Energy.
 
  In connection with the sale of its Northeast C&I contracts in December 2008, RERH Holdings guaranteed some former customers' performance to the buyer. See note 11.
Sale of Northeast C&I Contracts.
 
  RERH Holdings enters into contracts that include indemnification and guarantee provisions. In general, RERH Holdings enters into contracts with indemnities for matters such as breaches of representations and warranties and covenants contained in the contract against certain specified liabilities. Examples of these contracts include asset purchase and sales agreements, retail supply agreements, service agreements and procurement agreements.
Other.
and/or
 
Except as otherwise noted, RERH Holdings is unable to estimate its maximum potential exposure under these agreements until an event triggering payment occurs. RERH Holdings does not expect to make any material payments under these agreements.
 
 
 
 
 
  RERH Holdings is a party to purchased power contracts of various quantities and durations that are not classified as derivative assets and liabilities. These contracts are not included in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. Minimum purchase commitment obligations under these agreements are as follows as of December 31, 2008:
Purchased Power Commitments.
 
 
 
 
  As of December 31, 2008, RERH Holdings has sales commitments, including electric energy and capacity sales contracts, which are not classified as derivative assets and liabilities. The estimated minimum sales commitments over the next five years under these contracts are as follows:
Sales Commitments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  RERH Holdings has other commitments related to various agreements that aggregate as follows:
Other Commitments.
 
 
 
RERH Holdings is involved in some legal and other matters before courts and governmental agencies. Unless otherwise noted, RERH Holdings cannot predict the outcome of these matters.
 
  On December 5, 2008, RERH Holdings terminated its $300 million retail working capital facility agreement with Merrill Lynch in order to address any issue that might be asserted regarding the minimum adjusted retail EBITDA covenant in that facility. Following the termination, Merrill Lynch informed RERH Holdings that it reserved its rights to dispute the termination of the working capital facility. On December 24, 2008, Merrill Lynch filed an action in the Supreme Court of the State of New York seeking a judgment declaring that under the credit sleeve and reimbursement agreement (the agreement), RERH Holdings did not have the right to terminate the working capital facility without their consent and that such termination is an event of default under the agreement. The working capital facility provides RERH Holdings the express right to terminate the working capital facility without Merrill Lynch's consent. Consequently, RERH Holdings believes such termination does not constitute an event of default under the agreement. In January 2009, RERH Holdings filed a motion to dismiss Merrill Lynch's complaint. RERH Holdings intends to vigorously oppose the Merrill Lynch action. If Merrill Lynch is successful with its claim, it could seek to exercise remedies under the agreement. See note 5. For discussion of Reliant Energy's agreement to sell its interests in RERH Holdings, see note 12.
Merrill Lynch Action.
 
  There are various proceedings pending before the state district court in Travis County, Texas, seeking reviews of the Public Utility Commission of Texas orders relating to the fuel factor component used in the tariff. In an earlier proceeding, a review of the PUCT's approval of our requested fuel factor change was decided in RERH Holdings' favor by the district court and was later affirmed by the court of appeals in Travis County. The remaining cases involve the same issues already addressed and decided in our favor by those courts.
PUCT Cases.
"price-to-beat"
 
  From January 2002 to April 2005, CenterPoint applied excess mitigation credits (EMCs) to its monthly charges to retail energy providers. The PUCT imposed these credits to facilitate the transition to competition in Texas, which had the effect of lowering the retail energy providers' monthly charges payable to CenterPoint. CenterPoint represents that the portion of those EMCs credited to RERH Holdings totaled $385 million. In its stranded cost case, CenterPoint sought recovery of all EMCs credited to all retail electric providers, including RERH Holdings, and the PUCT ordered that relief. On appeal, the Texas Third Court of Appeals ruled that CenterPoint's stranded cost recovery should exclude EMCs credited to RERH Holdings. The case is now before the Texas Supreme Court. In November 2008, CenterPoint asked RERH Holdings to agree to suspend any limitations periods that might exist for possible claims against RERH Holdings if it is ultimately not allowed to include in its stranded cost calculation EMCs credited to RERH Holdings for customers. RERH Holdings agreed to suspend only unexpired deadlines, if any, that may apply to a CenterPoint claim relating to EMCs credited to RERH Holdings. Regardless of the outcome of the Texas Supreme Court proceeding, RERH Holdings believes that any
Excess Mitigation Credits.
price-to-beat
 
 
 
 
claim by CenterPoint that RERH Holdings is liable to it for any EMCs credited to RERH Holdings lacks legal merit and is unsupported by the Master Separation Agreement between CenterPoint and Reliant Energy. In addition, CenterPoint has publicly stated that it has no legal recourse against RERH Holdings for any reduction in the amount of its recoverable stranded costs should EMCs credited to RERH Holdings be excluded.
 
 
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and payable and derivative assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts.
 
 
RERH Holdings sold its Northeast C&I contracts in December 2008 for a gain of $52 million. Contracts included in the transaction represented total load of approximately six million megawatt hours which supplied electricity and related services to more than 300 C&I customers. The Northeast C&I activity was (a) $498 million of its consolidated revenues (or 5%) and (b) $18 million of its consolidated gross margin, excluding unrealized gains/losses on energy derivatives (or 4%) during 2008. In connection with the sale, RERH Holdings agreed to guarantee the payment of all amounts due from some customers for the remainder of their current contract terms. RERH Holdings estimates the most probable maximum potential amount of future payments under the guarantee is $13 million as of December 31, 2008. This estimate is based on 60 days of average accounts receivable balances adjusted for current forward and potential future exposures based on product types. The existing contracts with the guaranteed customers expire on various dates from June 2009 to May 2012. RERH Holdings recorded a liability of $2 million associated with the guarantee, with the corresponding charge included as a component of gain on sale of assets.
 
 
On February 28, 2009, Reliant Energy entered into several agreements related to the sale of its Texas retail business, primarily RERH Holdings. Reliant Energy entered into a purchase agreement to sell its interests in RERH Holdings, LLC (excluding the interests in Reliant Energy Solutions East, LLC) to a subsidiary (the buyer) of NRG Energy, Inc. (NRG) for $287.5 million in cash plus the value of the net working capital. This sale includes the rights to Reliant Energy's name. NRG has guaranteed the obligations of the buyer. Upon closing, RERH Holdings, which is party to the credit sleeve and reimbursement agreement with Merrill Lynch, will be owned by the buyer. RERH Holdings has agreed to pay Merrill Lynch a $7.5 million fee and to increase the fees under the credit sleeve and reimbursement agreement by $3 million per month until the close. The bulk of the fees payable to Merrill Lynch are payable only upon and at closing. When the sale closes, the litigation with Merrill Lynch against RERH Holdings related to the termination of its working capital facility will be dismissed. Reliant Energy and Merrill Lynch have agreed to stay further proceedings in the litigation until June 1, 2009, or in the event regulatory approvals delay closing, July 1, 2009. The sale is subject to customary closing conditions, including the review. The buyer may terminate the agreement in connection with certain takeover proposals that it may receive prior to closing subject to the payment of a $45 million termination fee. The sale is expected to close in the second quarter of 2009. Reliant Energy will enter a one-year transition services agreement with the buyer in connection with the closing, which will include terms and conditions for information technology services, accounting services and human resources. NRG's guarantee will also apply to this transition services agreement.
Hart-Scott-Rodino

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
(1) Background and Basis of Presentation
(a) Background
.
     "RERH Holdings" refers to RERH Holdings, LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries. RERH Holdings provides electricity and energy services to retail electricity customers in Texas, including residential and small business (mass) customers and commercial, industrial and governmental/institutional (C&I) customers. Approximately 65% of RERH Holdings' residential and small business customers are in the Houston area. Until the sale of its Northeast C&I contracts in December 2008, RERH Holdings' next largest market was the market operated by PJM Interconnection, LLC, primarily in New Jersey, Maryland, the District of Columbia and Pennsylvania (PJM area). The Northeast C&I activity for the three months ended March 31, 2008 was (a) $116 million of its consolidated revenues (or 6%) and (b) $4 million of its consolidated gross margin, excluding unrealized gains/losses on energy derivatives (or 3%).
     On February 28, 2009, Reliant Energy, Inc., the sole Class A member of RERH Holdings, entered into several agreements related to the sale of its Texas retail business, primarily RERH Holdings. Reliant Energy, Inc. entered into a purchase agreement to sell its interests in RERH Holdings, LLC (excluding the interests in Reliant Energy Solutions East, LLC) to a subsidiary (the buyer) of NRG Energy, Inc. (NRG) for $287.5 million in cash plus the value of the net working capital. NRG has guaranteed the obligations of the buyer. Upon closing, RERH Holdings, which is party to the credit sleeve and reimbursement agreement with Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. and affiliates (Merrill Lynch), will be owned by the buyer. RERH Holdings has agreed to pay Merrill Lynch a $7.5 million fee and to increase the fees under the credit sleeve and reimbursement agreement by $3 million per month until the close. The bulk of the fees payable to Merrill Lynch are payable only upon and at closing. The sale closed on May 1, 2009. This sale includes the rights to the Reliant Energy name. Accordingly, Reliant Energy, Inc. changed its name to RRI Energy, Inc. (RRI) on May 2, 2009. In connection with the sale, the litigation with Merrill Lynch against RERH Holdings related to the termination of its working capital facility has been dismissed. See Note 8.
     In connection with the sale transaction, RRI entered into a two-year sublease on its corporate office building with the buyer, with sublease rental income totaling $17 million for those two years. RRI also entered a one-year transition services agreement with the buyer, which includes terms and conditions for information technology services, accounting services and human resources. NRG's guarantee will also apply to this transition services agreement.
(b) Basis of Presentation.
     The accompanying unaudited consolidated interim financial statements and notes (or "Interim Financial Statements") have been prepared in accordance with the SEC's regulations for interim financial statements, omit certain disclosures and should be read in conjunction with RERH Holdings' audited consolidated financial statements and notes as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008.
     These Interim Financial Statements include all revenues and costs directly attributable to RERH Holdings including costs for facilities and costs for functions and services performed by RRI and charged to RERH Holdings. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
 
     Management makes estimates and assumptions to prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) that affect: the reported amount of assets, liabilities and equity; the reported amounts of revenues and expenses; and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. RERH Holdings evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors, including the current economic environment, which RERH Holdings believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. RERH Holdings adjusts such estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results could be different from these estimates.
Estimates.
     The Interim Financial Statements reflect all normal recurring adjustments necessary, in the opinion of management, to present fairly RERH Holdings' financial position and results of operations for the reported periods. Amounts reported for interim periods, however, may not be indicative of a full year period due to seasonal fluctuations in demand for electricity and energy services, changes in commodity prices, changes in regulations, and other factors.
Adjustments and Reclassifications.
     
Recent Accounting Developments.
     For some non-financial assets and liabilities, the effective date for Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157 fair value measurement criteria is January 1, 2009, pursuant to FSP No. FAS 157-2, "Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157" (FSP FAS 157-2). The adoption of FSP FAS 157-2 did not have a significant impact on RERH Holdings' consolidated financial statements.
     SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 161) is an amendment of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" and is intended to enhance the related qualitative and quantitative disclosures by providing for additional information about objectives, strategies, accounting treatment, volume by commodity type and credit-risk-related contingent features. SFAS No. 161 was adopted on January 1, 2009.
     The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, "Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments," which is effective for interim periods ending after June 15, 2009. The FSP amends SFAS No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments" and will require RERH Holdings to provide information about the fair value of its financial instruments, including methods and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value, in interim financial statements.
     The FASB issued FSP FAS 157-4, "Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly," which is effective for interim periods ending after June 15, 2009. The FSP provides guidance on how to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" in the current economic environment. RERH Holdings does not expect this FSP to have a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements.
(2) Changes in Members' Equity and Comprehensive Loss
(3) Revenues and Energy Supply Costs
     Gross revenues include energy revenues from resales of purchased power and other hedging activities, which are $104 million and $282 million for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These revenues represent a sale of excess supply to third parties in the market. As of March 31, 2009 and December 31,
 
2008, RERH Holdings recorded unbilled revenues of $319 million and $481 million, respectively, for energy sales and services.
     RERH Holdings records energy supply costs for electricity sales and services to retail customers based on estimated supply volumes for the applicable reporting period. A portion of its energy supply costs ($67 million and $83 million as of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively) consisted of estimated transmission and distribution charges not yet billed by the transmission and distribution utilities.
(4) Goodwill
     RERH Holdings performs its goodwill impairment test annually on April 1 and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. During April, RERH Holdings tested goodwill for impairment and determined that no impairment existed.
     RERH Holdings estimates its fair value based on a number of subjective factors, including: (a) appropriate weighting of valuation approaches, as discussed above, (b) projections about future customer mix and related revenues, (c) estimates of future cost structure, (d) risk-adjusted discount rates for estimated cash flows, (e) selection of peer group companies for the public company market approach, (f) required level of working capital, (g) assumed EBITDA multiple for terminal values and (h) time horizon of cash flow forecasts. For the most recent reporting period, RERH Holdings determined that the recently announced sale to a subsidiary of NRG was the best estimate of its value. Using that measure, the fair value exceeded the book value and therefore, the goodwill was not impaired as of March 31, 2009.
(5) Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
     RERH Holdings accounts for its derivatives instruments and hedging activities in accordance with SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended (SFAS No. 133). Effective January 1, 2009, RERH Holdings adopted SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 161). For additional information about our derivative instrument and hedging activities, see Note 2(f) to RERH Holdings' 2008 audited consolidated financial statements.
     As of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, RERH Holdings does not have any designated cash flow hedges.
     - RERH Holdings' credit exposure is based on its derivative assets and accounts receivable from its power supply counterparties, after taking into consideration netting within each contract and any master netting contracts with counterparties. RERH Holdings provides reserves for non-investment grade counterparties representing a significant portion of its credit exposure. As of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, RERH Holdings has no credit exposure.
Credit exposure
     RERH Holdings presents its derivative assets and liabilities on a gross basis (regardless of master netting arrangements with the same counterparty). Cash collateral amounts are also presented on a gross basis.
Presentation of Derivative Assets and Liabilities.
     As of March 31, 2009, RERH Holdings' commodity derivative assets and liabilities include amounts for non-trading activities as follows:
 
 
RERH Holdings has the following derivative commodity contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2009:
 
     The income (loss) associated with RERH Holdings' energy derivatives for the three months ended March 31, 2009 is:
 
     In connection with the unwind of the credit-enhanced retail structure with Merrill Lynch, RERH Holdings entered into a derivative contract with RRI in October 2008. This derivative is a 40 BCFe (billion cubic feet equivalent of natural gas) hedge that extends to December 2010. During the three months ended March 31, 2009, RERH Holdings recognized $14 million unrealized loss and $40 million realized loss on this transaction. These amounts are included in cost of sales  affiliates on the statement of operations.
Derivative Liabilities with Related Parties.
 
(6) Fair Value Measurements
     In accordance with SFAS No. 157, fair value measurement of RERH Holdings' derivative liabilities reflects the nonperformance risk related to that liability, which is its own credit risk. RERH Holdings derives its nonperformance risk by applying RRI's credit default swap spread against the respective derivative liability. As of March 31, 2009, RERH Holdings had $99 million in reserves for nonperformance risk on derivative liabilities.
Nonperformance Risk on Derivative Liabilities.
     
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments.
 
     The following is a reconciliation of changes in fair value of net derivative assets and liabilities classified as Level 3:
 
     For additional information about fair value measurements, see Note 2(e) to RERH Holdings' 2008 audited consolidated financial statements.
(7) Income Taxes
(a) Tax rate reconciliation.
     A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate is:
 
(b) Tax Attributes Carryovers.
     RERH Holdings' tax attribute carryovers will remain with RRI after the Texas retail sale to the subsidiary of NRG Energy, Inc. For tax purposes, the sale is deemed to be for assets rather than stock.
(c) Valuation Allowances.
     RERH Holdings determined that no valuation allowance is needed for its deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008.
(d) FIN 48 and Income Tax Uncertainties.
     RERH Holdings unrecognized tax benefits did not change significantly during the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008. During the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, RERH Holdings recognized $0 of income tax expense (benefit) due to changes in interest and penalties for federal and state income taxes. In connection with the Texas retail business sale, NRG will not inherit any tax contingencies from pre-acquisition periods for federal, state and local purposes, which will remain with RRI.
(8) Contingencies
     RERH Holdings is involved in some legal and other matters before courts and governmental agencies. Unless otherwise noted, RERH Holdings cannot predict the outcome of these matters.
     On December 5, 2008, RERH Holdings terminated its $300 million retail working capital facility agreement with Merrill Lynch in order to address any issue that might be asserted regarding the minimum adjusted retail EBITDA covenant in that facility. On December 24, 2008, Merrill Lynch filed an action in the Supreme Court of the State of New York seeking a judgment declaring that under the credit sleeve and reimbursement agreement (the agreement), RERH Holdings did not have the right to terminate the working capital facility without their consent and that such termination is an event of default under the agreement. On May 1, 2009, RERH Holdings and Merrill Lynch filed to dismiss this lawsuit and the agreement was transferred in connection with the closing of the sale of RERH Holdings' Texas retail business. The Court granted an order dismissing the action with prejudice on May 4, 2009.
Merrill Lynch Action.
     From January 2002 to April 2005, CenterPoint Energy applied excess mitigation credits, or EMCs, to its monthly charges to retail electric providers as ordered by the Public Utility Commission of Texas, or PUCT. The PUCT imposed these credits to facilitate the transition to competition in Texas, which had the effect of lowering the retail electric providers' monthly charges payable to CenterPoint Energy. As indicated in its Petition for Review filed with the Supreme Court of Texas on June 2, 2008, CenterPoint Energy has claimed that the portion of those EMCs credited to Reliant Energy Retail Services, LLC, or RERS, a retail electric provider and subsidiary of RERH Holdings LLC, totaled $385 million for RERS' "Price to Beat" Customers. It is unclear what the actual number may be. "Price to Beat" was the rate RERS was required by state law to charge residential and small commercial customers that were transitioned to RERS from the incumbent integrated utility company commencing in 2002. In its original stranded cost case brought before the PUCT on March 31, 2004, CenterPoint Energy sought recovery of all EMCs that were credited to all retail electric providers, including RERS, and the PUCT ordered that relief in its Order on Rehearing in Docket No. 29526, on December 17, 2004. After an appeal to state district court, the court entered a final judgment on August 26, 2005, affirming the PUCT's order with regard to EMCs credited to RERS. Various parties filed appeals of that judgment with the Court of Appeals for the Third District of Texas with the first such appeal filed on the same date as the state district court judgment and the last such appeal filed on October 10, 2005. On April 17, 2008, the Court of Appeals for the Third District reversed the lower court's decision ruling that CenterPoint Energy's stranded cost recovery should exclude only EMCs credited to RERS for its "Price to Beat" customers. On June 2, 2008, CenterPoint Energy filed a Petition for Review with the Supreme Court of Texas and on June 19, 2009, the Court agreed to consider the CenterPoint Energy appeal as well as two related petitions for review filed by other entities. Oral argument will occur on October 6, 2009.
Excess Mitigation Credits.
     In November 2008, CenterPoint Energy and RRI, on behalf of itself and affiliates including RERS, agreed to suspend unexpired deadlines, if any, related to limitations periods that might exist for possible claims against RRI and its affiliates if CenterPoint Energy is ultimately not allowed to include in its stranded cost calculation those EMCs previously credited to RERS. Regardless of the outcome of the Texas Supreme Court proceeding, we believe that any possible future CenterPoint Energy claim against RERS for EMCs credited to RERS would lack legal merit. No such claim has been filed.
 
     On November 14, 2006, Constellation Energy Commodities Group, or Constellation, filed a complaint with the PUCT alleging that ERCOT misapplied the Replacement Reserve Settlement, or RPRS, Formula contained in the ERCOT protocols from April 10, 2006, through September 27, 2006. Specifically, Constellation disputed approximately $4 million in under-scheduling charges for capacity insufficiency asserting that ERCOT applied the wrong protocol. Reliant Energy Power Supply, which is a subsidiary of RERH Holdings LLC referred to herein as REPS, other market participants, ERCOT, and PUCT Staff opposed Constellation's complaint. On January 25, 2008, the PUCT entered an order finding that ERCOT correctly settled the capacity insufficiency charges for the disputed dates in accordance with ERCOT protocols and denied Constellation's complaint. On April 9, 2008 Constellation appealed the PUCT order to the Civil District Court of Travis County, Texas and on June 19, 2009, the court issued a judgment reversing the PUCT order, finding that the ERCOT protocols were in irreconcilable conflict with each other.
Replacement Reserve Responsibility.
     Under the PUCT ordered formula, Qualified Scheduling Entities, or QSEs, who under-scheduled capacity within any of ERCOT's four congestion zones were assessed under-scheduling charges which defrayed the costs incurred by ERCOT for RPRS that would otherwise be spread among all load-serving QSEs. Under the Court's decision, all RPRS costs would be assigned to all load-serving QSEs based upon their load ratio share without assessing any separate charge to those QSEs who under-scheduled capacity. If under-scheduling charges for capacity insufficient QSEs were not used to defray RPRS costs, REPS' share of the total RPRS costs allocated to QSEs would increase.
     REPS intends to file an appeal to the Third Court of Appeals in Travis County, Texas, thereby staying the effect of the trial court's decision. If all appeals are unsuccessful, on remand to the PUCT, it would determine the appropriate methodology for giving effect to the trial court's decision. It is not known at this time whether only Constellation's under-scheduling charges, the under-scheduling charges of all other QSEs that disputed REPS charges for the same time frame, the entire market, or some other approach would be used for any resettlement.

Exhibit 99.3
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements of NRG Energy, Inc.
     Effective May 1, 2009, NRG Energy, Inc. ("NRG" or "the Company"), through its wholly owned subsidiary, NRG Retail LLC, or NRG Retail, completed its acquisition of the Texas electric retail business operations (referred to herein as Reliant Energy) of Reliant Energy, Inc. (now known as RRI Energy, Inc. and referred to herein as RRI). NRG paid RRI $287.5 million in cash at closing, from NRG's cash on hand, and will remit approximately $82 million to RRI for acquired net working capital over the 8 months following the closing. In addition, NRG recognized a $31 million non-cash gain on settlement of a pre-existing relationship, representing the in-the-money value to NRG of an agreement that permits Reliant Energy to call on certain NRG gas plants when necessary for Reliant Energy to meet its load obligations; this is considered a component of the consideration in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141 (revised 2007)  , or SFAS 141R.
Business Combinations
     Reliant Energy constituted substantially all of the business of RERH Holdings, LLC and Subsidiaries, or RERH, a wholly owned subsidiary of RRI. NRG did not acquire the portions of the business reported under RERH related to retail markets outside of Texas. In addition, NRG acquired a power purchase agreement on a wind farm in Texas, as well as related Renewable Energy Certificates and hedges, which were not part of RERH.
     The acquisition of Reliant Energy is accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with SFAS 141R. Accordingly, NRG has conducted a preliminary assessment of net assets acquired, and has recognized provisional amounts for identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated acquisition date fair values, while transaction and integration costs associated with the acquisition are expensed as incurred. The initial accounting for the business combination is not complete because the appraisals necessary to assess the fair values of the net assets acquired and the amount of goodwill to be recognized are still in process, and the Company is also in the process of valuing the tax basis of the assets and liabilities acquired, which will affect the deferred tax balances. The provisional amounts recognized are subject to revision as more detailed analyses are completed and additional information is obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date. Any changes to the fair value assessments and the tax basis values will affect the final balance of goodwill.
     The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present the impact of the purchase on the companies' respective historical financial positions and results of operations and have been derived by applying pro forma adjustments to the combined historical financial statements of NRG and RERH. The historical unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information for RERH has been adjusted to reflect the elimination of the specified assets and liabilities of RERH that were not acquired or assumed, and the addition of the specified assets acquired and liabilities assumed that were not part of RERH. In addition, certain amounts in RERH's historical condensed consolidated financial information have been reclassified to conform to NRG's presentation. The pro forma adjustments are directly attributable to the Acquisition and based upon available information and certain assumptions that NRG believes are reasonable. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet and income statements do not include intercompany eliminations between NRG and Reliant Energy.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 and for the three months ended March 31, 2009 have been prepared as if the Acquisition occurred on January 1, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of March 31, 2009 assumes the Acquisition was completed on that date.
     These unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet and statements of operations has been derived from and should be read in conjunction with:
     The unaudited pro forma financial statements and related notes are provided for illustrative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the results which would have actually been obtained had the Acquisition been completed on the date indicated or which may be expected to occur in the future. No effect has been given for costs that may be incurred in integrating the operations of NRG and Reliant Energy, or for operational efficiencies that may have been achieved if the Acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Presentation
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations are based on historical statements of operations of NRG and Reliant Energy for the year ended December 31, 2008 and for the three months ended March 31, 2009, after giving effect to the Acquisition as if the transaction had occurred on January 1, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of March 31, 2009 assumes the Acquisition was completed on that date. Certain amounts in Reliant Energy's historical condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform with NRG's presentation.
     The acquisition of Reliant Energy is accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with SFAS 141R. Accordingly, NRG has conducted a preliminary assessment of net assets acquired, and has recognized provisional amounts for identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated acquisition date fair values, while transaction and integration costs associated with the transaction are expensed as incurred. The initial accounting for the business combination is not complete because the appraisals necessary to assess the fair values of the net assets acquired and the amount of goodwill to be recognized are still in process, and the Company is also in the process of valuing the tax basis of the assets and liabilities acquired, which will affect the deferred tax balances. The provisional amounts recorded for net assets acquired are subject to revision as more detailed analyses are completed and additional information is obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date. Any changes to the fair value assessments and the tax basis values will affect the final balance of goodwill.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present the impact of the Acquisition on the companies' respective historical financial positions and results of operations and have been derived by applying pro forma adjustments to the combined historical financial statements of NRG and RERH. The historical unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information for RERH has been adjusted to reflect the elimination of the specified assets and liabilities of RERH that were not acquired or assumed, and the addition of the power purchase agreement on a wind farm in Texas, as well as related Renewable Energy Certificates and hedges, that were not part of RERH. In addition, certain amounts in RERH's historical condensed consolidated financial information have been reclassified to conform with NRG's presentation. The pro forma adjustments are directly attributable to the Acquisition and based upon available information and certain assumptions that NRG believes are reasonable. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet and income statements do not include intercompany eliminations between NRG and RERH.
     The unaudited pro forma financial statements and related notes are provided for illustrative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the results which would have actually been obtained had the Acquisition been completed on the date indicated or which may be expected to occur in the future. No effect has been given for costs that may be incurred in integrating the operations of NRG and Reliant Energy, or for operational efficiencies that may have been achieved if the Acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2008.
Recent Accounting Developments Affecting NRG Historical Income Statement for the Year Ended December 31, 2008
     The Company adopted FSP No. APB 14-1, or FSP APB 14-1, on January 1, 2009, applying it retrospectively to all periods presentedFSP APB 14-1 clarifies that convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) do not fall within the scope of paragraph 12 of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 14, and specifies that issuers of such instruments should separately account for the liability component and the equity component represented by the embedded conversion option in a manner that will reflect the entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Upon settlement, the entity shall allocate consideration transferred and transaction costs incurred to the extinguishment of the liability component and the reacquisition of the equity component.
Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement),
.
Accounting for Convertible Debt and Debt Issued with Stock Purchase Warrants,
     During the third quarter 2006, NRG's unrestricted wholly-owned subsidiaries CSF I and CSF II issued notes and preferred interests, or CSF Debt, which included an embedded derivative requiring NRG to pay to Credit Suisse Group, or CS, at maturity, either in cash or stock at NRG's option, the excess of NRG's then current stock price over a threshold price. The CSF Debt and its embedded derivative are accounted for under the guidance in FSP APB 14-1. While FSP APB 14-1 is fully reflected in NRG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009, it is not reflected in the historical financial statements included in NRG's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following table summarizes the effect of the adoption of FSP APB 14-1 on NRG's income and per-share amounts for the year ending December 31, 2008, which is reflected in NRG's historical income statement data included herein:
 
     The Company also adopted SFAS No. 160, , or SFAS 160, on January 1, 2009. This Statement amends ARB No. 51 to establish accounting and reporting standards for the minority interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It also amends certain of ARB No. 51's consolidation procedures for consistency with the requirements of SFAS 141R. This Statement is applied prospectively from the date of adoption, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which shall be applied retrospectively. Accordingly, the Company has conformed its financial statement presentation and disclosures to the requirements of SFAS 160. While SFAS 160 is fully reflected in NRG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009, it is not reflected in the historical financial statement presentation included in NRG's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K; there was no change in income from continuing operations attributable to NRG for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statementsan amendment of ARB No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 2  Preliminary Consideration and Allocation
     The following table summarizes the consideration as of the acquisition date in accordance with SFAS 141R:
     The following table summarizes the provisional values assigned to the net assets acquired, as of the acquisition date:
 
     The preliminary valuation of the additional intangible assets and liabilities recorded as a result of the Acquisition is as follows:
     The fair value measurements of the intangible assets and liabilities were primarily based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market and thus represent a Level 3 measurement as defined in SFAS No. 157  , or SFAS 157.
Fair Value Measurement
     The fair value of Reliant Energy's Commercial and Industrial Contracts, or C&I Contracts, both in-market and out-of-market, was estimated based on the present value of the above/below market cash flows attributable to the contracts based on contract type, discounted utilizing a current market interest rate consistent with the overall credit quality of the portfolio. The fair values also account for Reliant Energy's historical costs to acquire customers. The above/below market cash flows were estimated by comparing the expected cash flows to be generated based on existing contracted prices and expected volumes with the cash flows from estimated current market contract prices for the same expected volumes. The estimated current market contract prices were derived considering current market costs, such as price of energy, transmission and distribution costs, and miscellaneous fees, plus a normal profit margin. The weighted average amortization period was determined based on volumes for the portfolio that are expected to be delivered.
     The Mass Customer Relationships were valued using an "excess earnings method". Under this approach, the Company estimated the present value of expected future cash flows resulting from the existing customer relationships, considering attrition and charges for contributory assets (such as net working capital, fixed assets, software, workforce and trade names) utilized in the business, discounted at an independent power producer peer group's weighted average cost of capital. The weighted average amortization period was determined based on the expected discounted future net cash flows by year.
     The Trade Names were valued using a "relief from royalty" method, an approach under which fair value is estimated to be the present value of royalties saved because NRG owns the intangible asset and therefore does not have to pay a royalty for its use. The Trade Names were valued in two parts based on Reliant Energy's two primary customer segments  Mass Customers and C&I Customers. The avoided royalty revenues were discounted at an independent power producer peer group's weighted average cost of capital. The Trade Names will be amortized on a straight-line basis over 15 years.
     The fair value of the in-market and out-of-market energy supply contracts was determined in accordance with SFAS 157. These contracts will be amortized over periods ranging through 2016, based on the expected delivery under the respective contracts.
     The following table presents the estimated amortization related to intangible assets for 2009 - - 2014:
 
     The following table presents the estimated amortization related to out-of-market contracts for 2009 - 2014:
Note 3  RERH Purchase Adjustments
     Adjustments to eliminate portions of the business related to retail markets outside of Texas that were reported under RERH, and were not included in the Acquisition, and to add the power purchase agreement on a wind farm in Texas, as well as related Renewable Energy Certificates and hedges, that were not part of RERH and were included in the Acquisition.
Note 4  Reporting Reclassifications
 
     
Note 5  Acquisition Method Accounting and Other Adjustments


