FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20100401172102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     On March 29, 2010, NRG Energy, Inc. (the "Company") announced the appointment of Christian Schade as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective following the filing of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. Gerald Luterman, a member of the Company's Board of Directors and the interim Chief Financial Officer, will continue to serve as the Chief Financial Officer until that time.
     Mr. Schade, 49, was Senior Vice President Administration and Chief Financial Officer at Medarex, a Princeton-based biopharmaceutical company acquired by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. for $2.4 billion in September 2009. During his tenure, which began in October 2000, Mr. Schade helped Medarex grow to become a leading biopharmaceutical development company raising capital through a series of public capital market and asset monetization transactions. Mr. Schade played a lead role in negotiations for the sale of Medarex to Bristol-Myers Squibb and, until recently, helped lead the merger-integration process of the research, development and administrative functions. Mr. Schade also serves on the Board of Directors of Integra LifeSciences Holdings Corporation.
     Prior to Medarex, Mr. Schade was a Managing Director in the Debt Capital Markets Group at Merrill Lynch & Co., where, in London, he oversaw public and private capital-markets transactions for corporate clients throughout Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Previously he served in various corporate finance and capital market positions in New York and London for both Merrill Lynch and JP Morgan.
     Mr. Schade's 2010 compensation arrangement is set forth in Exhibit 10.1 of this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, Mr. Schade will be a participant in the Company's 2009 Executive Change in Control and General Severance Plan (the "2009 CIC Plan") attached as Exhibit 10.2 of this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. The 2009 CIC Plan does not provide for gross-up payments in the event that payments under the 2009 CIC Plan subject Mr. Schade to an excise tax under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 1, 2010

Exhibit 10.1
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
NRG Energy, Inc.
2009 Executive Change-in-Control and General Severance Plan
 
Contents
 
NRG Energy, Inc. 2009 Executive Change-in-Control and General Severance Plan for Tier I and Tier II Executives
Article 1. Establishment and Term of the Plan
     NRG Energy, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the "") hereby adopts this plan knows as the "NRG Energy, Inc. 2009 Executive Change-in-Control and General Severance Plan" (the ""). The Plan provides severance benefits to Tier IA Executives and Tier IIA Executives of the Company (each an "" and collectively the "") upon certain terminations of employment from the Company.
1.1 Establishment of the Plan.
Company
Plan
Executive
Executives
     The Company considers the establishment and maintenance of a sound and vital management to be essential to protecting and enhancing the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. In this connection, the Company recognizes that, as is the case with many publicly held corporations, the possibility of a change in control may arise and that such possibility, and the uncertainty and questions which it may raise among management, may result in the departure or distraction of management personnel to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders.
     Accordingly, the Board has determined that appropriate steps should be taken to reinforce and encourage the continued attention and dedication of members of the Company's management to their assigned duties without distraction in circumstances arising from the possibility of a Change in Control of the Company.
     This Plan will commence on July 23, 2009 (the "") and shall continue in effect for a period of three (3) years (the "").
1.2 Initial Term.
Effective Date
Initial Term
     The term of this Plan shall automatically be extended for one (1) additional year at the end of the Initial Term, and then again after each successive one (1) year period thereafter (each such one (1) year period following the Initial Term is referred to as a ""). However, the Committee may terminate this Plan at the end of the Initial Term, or at the end of any Successive Period thereafter, by giving the Executives written notice of intent to terminate the Plan, delivered at least six (6) months prior to the end of such Initial Term or Successive Period. If such notice is properly delivered by the Company, this Plan, along with all corresponding rights, duties, and covenants, shall automatically expire at the end of the Initial Term or Successive Period then in progress.
1.3 Successive Periods.
Successive Period
     Notwithstanding the provisions of above, in the event that a Change in Control of the Company occurs during the Initial Term or any Successive Period, upon the effective date of such Change in Control, the term of this Plan shall automatically and irrevocably be renewed for a period of two (2) years from the effective date of such Change in Control. Further, this Plan may be assigned to the successor in such Change in Control, as further provided in herein. This Plan shall thereafter automatically terminate following such two (2) year Change-in-Control renewal period; provided that such termination shall not affect or diminish the rights of Executives who become entitled to benefits or payments under this Plan.
1.4 Change-in-Control Renewal.
Section 1.3
Article 8
 
Article 2. Definitions
     Whenever used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized.
 
 
 
 
Article 3. Severance Benefits
     
3.1 Right to Severance Benefits.
 
     In the event the Executive becomes entitled to receive Change-in-Control Severance Benefits, as provided in herein, the Company shall provide the Executive with the following:
3.2 Description of Change-in-Control Severance Benefits.
Section 3.1(a)
 
     In the event the Executive becomes entitled to receive General Severance Benefits as provided in herein, the Company shall provide the Executive with the following:
3.3 Description of General Severance Benefits.
Section 3.1(b)
 
     
3.4 Coordination with Release and Delay Required by Code Section 409A.
Article 4. Confidentiality and Noncompetition
     In the event the Executive becomes entitled to receive Change-in-Control Severance Benefits as provided in herein or General Severance Benefits as provided in herein, the following shall apply:
Section 3.2
Section 3.3
 
 
 
Article 5. Certain Change in Control Payments
     Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if any payments or benefits an Executive would receive from the Company under the Plan or otherwise in connection with the Change in Control (the "") (a) constitute "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, and (b) but for this , would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, then such Executive will be entitled to receive either (i) the full amount of the Total Payments or (ii) a portion of the Total Payments having a value equal to $1 less than three (3) times such individual's "base amount" (as such term is defined in Section 280G(b)(3)(A) of the Code), whichever of (i) and (ii), after taking into account applicable federal, state, and local income taxes and the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, results in the receipt by such employee on an after-tax basis, of the greatest portion of the Total Payments. Any determination required under this shall be made in writing by the Company's independent certified public accountants appointed prior to any change in ownership (as defined under Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) or tax counsel selected by such accountants (the ""), whose determination shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes upon the applicable Executive. For purposes of making the calculations required by this , the Accountants may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning applicable taxes and may rely on reasonable, good-faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code. If there is a reduction pursuant to this of the Total Payments to be delivered to the applicable Executive, the payment reduction contemplated by the preceding sentence shall be implemented by determining the "Parachute Payment Ratio" (as defined below) for each "parachute payment" and then reducing the "parachute payments" in order beginning with the "parachute payment" with the highest Parachute Payment Ratio. For "parachute payments" with the same Parachute Payment Ratio, such "parachute payments" shall be reduced based on the time of payment of such "parachute payments," with amounts having later payment dates being reduced first. For "parachute payments" with the same Parachute Payment Ratio and the same time of payment, such "parachute payments" shall be reduced on a pro rata basis (but not below zero) prior to reducing "parachute payments" with a lower Parachute Payment Ratio. For purposes hereof, the term "Parachute Payment Ratio" shall mean a fraction the numerator of which is the value of the applicable "parachute payment" for purposes of Section 280G of the Code and the denominator of which is the actual present value of such payment.
Total Payments
Article 5
Article 5
Accountants
Article 5
Article 5
 
Article 6. Legal Fees and Notice
     Except as otherwise agreed to by the parties, the Company shall pay the Executive for costs of litigation or other disputes including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the Executive during Executive's lifetime in asserting any claims or defenses under this Plan, except that the Executive shall bear his own costs of such litigation or disputes (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees) if the court (or arbitrator) finds in favor of the Company with respect to any claims or defenses asserted by the Executive.
6.1 Payment of Legal Fees.
     Any notices, requests, demands, or other communications provided for by this Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and if sent by registered or certified mail to the Executive at the last address he or she has filed in writing with the Company or, in the case of the Company, at its principal offices.
6.2 Notice.
Article 7. Successors and Assignment
     The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, reorganization, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, liquidation, or otherwise) of all or a significant portion of the assets of the Company by agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Executive, to expressly assume and agree to perform under this Plan in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. Regardless of whether such agreement is executed, the terms of this Plan shall be binding upon any successor in accordance with the operation of law and such successor shall be deemed the "Company" for purposes of this Plan.
7.1 Successors to the Company.
     This Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees, and legatees. If the Executive dies while any amount would still be payable to him or her hereunder had he or she continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Plan to the Executive's Beneficiary. If the Executive has not named a Beneficiary, then such amounts shall be paid to the Executive's devisee, legatee, or other designee, or if there is no such designee, to the Executive's estate.
7.2 Assignment by the Executive.
Article 8. Miscellaneous
     Except as may be provided under any other agreement between the Executive and the Company, the employment of the Executive by the Company is "at will" and may be terminated by either the Executive or the Company at any time, subject to applicable law.
8.1 Employment Status.
     .
8.2 Code Section 409A
 
     This Plan supersedes any prior agreements or understandings, oral or written, between the parties hereto, with respect to the subject matter hereof, and constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect thereto. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence, this Plan completely supersedes any and all prior employment agreements entered into by and between the Company and the Executive, and all amendments thereto, in their entirety. For the avoidance of doubt, the Original Plan shall remain outstanding, provided that following the Effective Date no additional employees shall become participants in the Original Plan and in no event shall any employee be entitled to participate in both this Plan and the Original Plan.
8.3 Entire Plan.
     In the event that any provision or portion of this Plan shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions of this Plan shall be unaffected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
8.4 Severability.
     The Company may withhold from any benefits payable under this Plan all federal, state, city, or other taxes as may be required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling.
8.5 Tax Withholding.
     The Executive may designate one (1) or more persons or entities as the primary and/or contingent beneficiaries of any amounts to be received under this Plan.
8.6 Beneficiaries.
 
Such designation must be in the form of a signed writing acceptable to the Board or the Board's designee. The Executive may make or change such designation at any time.
     The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for herein shall be absolute and unconditional, and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any offset, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other right which the Company may have against the Executive or anyone else.
8.7 Payment Obligation Absolute.
     Except as provided in and of this Plan, the Executive shall not be obligated to seek other employment in mitigation of the amounts payable or arrangements made under any provision of this Plan, and the obtaining of any such other employment shall in no event effect any reduction of the Company's obligations to make the payments and arrangements required to be made under this Plan.
Sections 3.2(d)
3.3(c)
     Subject to approval and ratification by the Board of Directors, this Plan establishes and vests in the Executive a contractual right to the benefits to which he or she is entitled hereunder. However, nothing herein contained shall require or be deemed to require, or prohibit or be deemed to prohibit, the Company to segregate, earmark, or otherwise set aside any funds or other assets, in trust or otherwise, to provide for any payments to be made or required hereunder.
8.8 Contractual Rights to Benefits.
     No provision of this Plan may be modified, waived, or discharged with respect to any particular Executive unless such modification, waiver, or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by such Executive and by an authorized member of the Committee, or by the respective parties' legal representatives and successors, provided, however, that the Committee may unilaterally amend this Plan without the Executive's consent if such amendment does not materially adversely alter or impair in any significant manner any rights or obligations of the Executive under the Plan.
8.9 Modification.
     Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
8.10 Gender and Number.
     To the extent not preempted by the laws of the United States, the laws of the state of New Jersey shall be the controlling law in all matters relating to this Plan.
8.11 Applicable Law.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has executed this Plan on this 23rd day of July, 2009.
ATTEST
NRG Energy, Inc.


