FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20100802063035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
          On August 2, 2010, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
          (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:
August 2, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Financial Highlights
2010 Outlook Raised
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported net income of $210 million, or $0.81 per diluted common share for the second quarter of 2010, compared to $432 million, or $1.56 per diluted common share for the second quarter of 2009. Income before taxes was $327 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $582 million in the second quarter of 2009. The $255 million decline in income before taxes is largely the result of $149 million lower operating income for Reliant Energy as a result of lower derivative gains and decreased Mass margins attributable to the price reductions taken in June and July of 2009. In addition, the second quarter results in 2009 benefited from the $128 million gain from the sale of MIBRAG.
PRINCETON, NJ; August 2, 2010
Net income for the first half of 2010 was $268 million, or $1.03 per diluted common share, compared to $630 million, or $2.27 per diluted common share for the same period last year. Income before taxes was $450 million in the first half of 2010, a decrease of $628 million from the first half of 2009. This decrease is driven by $384 million lower unrealized gains on open positions related to economic hedges in the first half of 2010 compared to 2009, and the gain on the sale of MIBRAG realized in the first half of 2009.
Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, was $1,294 million for the first half of 2010, $70 million higher than the first half of 2009 of $1,224 million. Reliant Energy contributed $385 million to the 2010 results, compared to $230 million for 2009. The $155 million increase is a result of full period ownership in 2010 compared to two months included in the first half of 2009. The increase is partially offset by lower margins in 2010 driven by pricing reductions on the Mass customer business. The wholesale business was down $85 million in the first half of 2010 compared to 2009, mostly due to decreased margins on the baseload assets resulting from lower hedged prices and increased coal expenses, mainly as a result of higher transportation costs.
1
 
"NRG continued to deliver record results and cash flow generation despite the weak commodity and economic environment. While achieving such an outstanding operating result, NRG also continued to build for the future, expanding our portfolio of clean and alternative energy projects through the acquisition of Northwind Phoenix thermal facility, South Trent wind farm, and a portfolio of US Solar development projects," commented David Crane, NRG President and Chief Executive Officer. "In addition, we have enhanced our financial strength and flexibility by refinancing our revolver and amending and extending our existing term loan and synthetic letter of credit facilities."
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 1: Net Income/(Loss)
Table 2: Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM
Second quarter adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, totaled $195 million, a decline of $35 million from the second quarter of 2009 which only included results for two months as NRG completed the Reliant acquisition on May 1, 2009. Excluding April 2010 results, Reliant's EBITDA decreased $72 million for May and June, although second quarter 2010 margin levels were still strong driven by a low commodity environment. This decrease was driven by an $86 million decline in retail gross margin as Mass margins decreased 22% due to price reductions and lower margins on acquired and renewed customers. Also contributing to lower margins was an 8% decline in Mass volumes sold, primarily due to fewer customers. The second quarter of 2010 averaged 1.5 million
Reliant Energy:
2
 
customers as compared to 1.6 million for the same period in 2009. Lower operating expensesincluding marketing, labor, and call center expenses of $14 millionpartially offset this decline.
Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, for the second quarter of 2010 decreased $3 million compared to the second quarter of 2009 to $343 million. Economic gross margin increased $12 million from the combination of slightly higher hedged volumes and prices, plus an increase in ancillary services provided to Reliant Energy, offset by an increase in WA Parish coal transportation costs. Overall generation was down 4% due to the South Texas Project (STP) unit 2 refueling outage in April, 6% lower gas fleet generation, and 1% lower coal generation partially offset by increased wind generation. The STP outage led to an increase in operations and maintenance costs of $11 million from 2009 to 2010.
Texas:
The region's adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, for the second quarter was $101 million, a decrease of $16 million from the second quarter of 2009. Net energy margins were unfavorable $34 million due to lower hedged prices. Although total generation for the region was relatively unchanged compared to the previous year, warm June weather led to a 20% increase in oil and gas generation for the quarter. Offsetting the lower energy margins were favorable property taxes of $12 million., and operating costs decreased $4 million due to lower spending at Arthur Kill, which had a major outage in the second quarter of 2009.
Northeast:
Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, for the second quarter decreased by $4 million to $20 million. While contract energy and capacity revenues increased $21 million, driven by the addition of a new contract with a regional municipality and increased fuel pass-through revenues, lower merchant activity of $12 million partially offset the gains. Despite an increase in merchant sales of 28% to 128k MWh, a decline in average realized prices coupled with the expiration of a merchant capacity agreement led to the negative quarter-over-quarter comparison. The region's quarterly results were also impacted by increased maintenance work totaling $13 million with a 47-day major overhaul on Big Cajun II unit 2 as compared to routine maintenance totaling 26 days on the jointly owned Big Cajun II unit 3 in the second quarter of 2009.
South Central:
Second quarter 2010 adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, totaled $32 million, an increase of $17 million from the second quarter of 2009. Gladstone's results increased by $8 million in the quarter due to a settlement with an offtaker resulting in the reversal of a liability. Additionally, the region realized foreign exchange gains of $9 million.
International:
3
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table 3: Corporate Liquidity
For the three months ended June 30, 2010, total liquidity, excluding collateral received, increased by $290 million primarily due to higher cash and cash equivalent balances of $355 million and increased availability of the synthetic letter of credit facility of $54 million, partially offset by a $125 million decrease in the revolving credit facility as a result of refinancing the facility in June. The change in cash and cash equivalents during the quarter resulted from $491 million of cash flow from operations, $102 million of cash grants received from the U.S. Treasury for the Blythe and Langford projects, $131 million of proceeds from the issuance of debt partially offset by $145 million of capital expenditures, $141 million for the acquisitions of businesses, and $50 million of stock repurchases.
Moving Clean Energy Forward
On June 22, 2010, NRG acquired Northwind Phoenix, the owner and operator of a district cooling system and combined heat and power plants providing chilled water, steam and electricity to customers in Phoenix and Tucson. The total purchase price of $100 million was financed by an NRG Thermal LLC issuance of $100 million in notes and Northwind Phoenix's financial results will be included in the Thermal segment.
On June 14, 2010, NRG acquired South Trent Wind LLCa 101 MW wind farm in west Texas with a 20-year power purchase agreement for all of the generationfor $111 million. In connection with the acquisition, NRG entered into a financing arrangement that included a $79 million term loan. South Trent's financial results will be included in the Texas segment.
2010 Share Repurchase Plan Update
During the second quarter, the Company purchased 2,214,000 shares at a volume weighted average cost of $22.58 per share, for a total of $50 million. The Company has repurchased an aggregate of $2.5 billion of its common shares at a weighted average cost of $23.90 per share since commencing common share repurchases in December of 2004. Currently, the Company is authorized to repurchase up to another $130 million of its common shares and intends to do so during the second half of 2010.
4
 
Outlook for 2010
Given stronger year-to-date results, we are increasing 2010 adjusted EBITDA guidance to a range of $2,450 to $2,550 million (excluding MtM), with the wholesale business at $1,800 to $1,850 million and Reliant Energy contributing $650 to $700 million. Our free cash flow guidance is increased to a range of $816 to $916 million (excluding MtM) as a result of the increase in projected adjusted EBITDA, and our revised projection in ongoing NINA investment.
Table 4: 2010 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, Guidance
Earnings Conference Call
On August 2, 2010, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. To access the live webcast of the conference call and accompanying presentation materials, log on to NRG's website at and click on "Investors." The webcast will also be archived on the site.
http://www.nrgenergy.com
About NRG
NRG Energy, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, owns and operates one of the country's largest and most diverse power generation portfolios. Headquartered in Princeton, NJ, the Company's power plants provide more than 24,000 megawatts of generation capacity  enough to supply more than 20 million homes. NRG's retail business, Reliant Energy, serves 1.6 million residential, business, and commercial and industrial customers in Texas. A past recipient of the energy industry's highest honors  Platts Industry Leadership and Energy Company of the Year awards  NRG is a member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), a group of business and environmental organizations calling for mandatory legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. More information is available at
www.nrgenergy.com.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include our adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow guidance, expected earnings, future growth, financial performance, environmental capital expenditures, and nuclear and other clean energy development, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
5
 
those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, successful partnering relationships, government loan guarantees competition in wholesale and retail power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide processes, the inability to maintain retail customers, the inability to achieve the expected benefits and timing of development projects, and the 2010 Capital Allocation Plan, and share repurchase under the Capital Allocation Plan may be made from time to time subject to market conditions and other factors, including as permitted by United States securities laws.
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance and adjusted cash flow from operations, and free cash flows are estimates as of today's date, August 2, 2010 and are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
www.sec.gov
Contacts:
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
Appendix Table A-1: Second Quarter 2010 Regional Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
10
 
Appendix Table A-2: Second Quarter 2009 Regional Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
11
 
Appendix Table A-3: YTD Second Quarter 2010 Regional Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
12
 
Appendix Table A-4: YTD Second Quarter 2009 Regional Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM, and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
13
 
EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts are non GAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; Exelon defense costs, and Texas retail acquisition and integration costs; and factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
Free cash flow is cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, preferred stock dividends and repowering capital expenditures net of project funding and is used by NRG predominantly as a forecasting tool to estimate cash available for debt reduction and other capital allocation alternatives. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each of these adjustments and the reasons NRG considers them appropriate for supplemental analysis. Because we have mandatory debt service requirements (and other non-discretionary expenditures) investors should not rely on free cash flow as a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures.
14


