FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20100510061527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On May 10, 2010, NRG Energy, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 10, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
First Quarter 2010 Financial Highlights
Moving Clean Energy Forward
NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today reported net income of $58 million, or $0.22 per diluted common share for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $198 million, or $0.70 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2009. Income before taxes was $123 million in the first quarter of 2010 compared to $496 million generated in the first quarter of 2009. The $373 million decline in income before taxes is largely the result of a $456 million decrease in unrealized mark-to-market (MtM) derivative gains on economic hedges partly offset by contributions from Reliant Energy which NRG acquired on May 1, 2009.
PRINCETON, NJ; May 10, 2010
Adjusted EBITDA, excluding MtM impacts, was $601 million for the first quarter of 2010, $124 million higher than the first quarter of 2009 EBITDA of $477 million. Reliant Energy contributed $190 million of EBITDA for the quarter, offsetting a $48 million decline in the Texas wholesale business. The net $142 million gain in EBITDA in the first quarter of 2010 compared to 2009 in Texas illustrates the complementary benefits of owning both generation and retail businesses in the state. Going forward, NRG is well positioned to continue to manage commodity price risk, minimize collateral requirements and reduce commercial transaction costs. The $18 million decline in wholesale EBITDA outside of Texas was driven by lower average hedged prices in the Northeast region and lower contributions from the international assets due to the sale of MIBRAG in June 2009, which was partially offset by a $23 million gain from the sale of Padoma in January 2010.
"In a weak commodity price environment, our record financial performance reflects the strength of our hedging program and continued operational excellence across our generation and retail businesses. While retaining our focus on delivering stellar financial results for the quarter, we also made significant progress in our renewables development program and, importantly, on our industry-leading STP nuclear development project as demonstrated by today's announcement of TEPCO's proposed investment," commented David Crane, NRG President and Chief Executive Officer. "In addition, we concluded our search for a Chief Financial Officer during the quarter with the appointment of Christian Schade who brings a proven track record of creating shareholder value at highly entrepreneurial and fast-growing companies."
 
Regional Segment Review of Results
Table 1: Income (Loss) before Income Taxes
 
MtM Impacts of Hedging Activities
The Company, in the normal course of business, enters into contracts to lock in forward prices for a significant portion of its expected power generation and to fulfill Reliant Energy's supply requirements. Although these transactions are predominantly economic hedges of our generation portfolio and load requirements, a portion of these forward sales and purchases are not afforded hedge accounting treatment, in accordance with ASC 815, and the MtM change in value of these transactions is recorded to current period earnings. Included in the $123 million of income before taxes in the first quarter of 2010 was a $63 million forward net MtM loss on our economic hedges resulting from falling commodity prices and the combined wholesale and retail portfolio during the quarter. Excluding this impact, income before taxes, net of MtM impacts was $186 million. In the first quarter of 2009, there were $332 million net MtM gains on our economic hedges included in the $496 million of income before taxes. The net MtM gains on our wholesale portfolio were largely caused by decreasing power and natural gas prices. Excluding this impact, income before taxes, net of MtM impacts was $164 million for the first quarter of 2009.
 
Table 2: Adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts
 
First quarter adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts, totaled $190 million principally as a result of colder than normal weather which led to increased customer usage. Reliant's financial performance for the quarter also benefited from a reduction in bad debt expense and improved customer retention. Total Retail revenues were $1,245 million on 11 TWh sold to both Mass and C&I customers while cost of sales, net of MtM, totaled $952 million, resulting in a Retail gross margin of $293 million. Other operating expenses incurred during the quarter totaled $103 million and included $49 million of selling, general and administrative expenses; $29 million of expenses associated with the call center and billing, credit, and collections; $16 million of gross receipts tax; and $9 million of bad debt expense.
Reliant Energy:
Adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts for the first quarter of 2010 for the Texas wholesale generation business decreased by $48 million to $272 million compared to the first quarter of 2009. Increased gas fleet generation of 94% was more than offset by lower margins from the baseload fleet resulting from lower hedged prices, a decline in nuclear generation, and higher fuel costs at WA Parish and Limestone, which drove an overall $37 million quarter over quarter decline in energy margins. Also, maintenance spending at South Texas Project (STP) was higher in the first quarter of 2010 versus 2009 by $9 million, largely due to the plant beginning preparations for its Unit 2 refueling and maintenance outage in April 2010.
Texas:
First quarter 2010 adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts was $76 million, a decrease of $30 million from the first quarter of 2009. Net energy margins were unfavorable $38 million due to lower hedged prices. Due to the plan to retire Indian River unit 3 in 2014, the region incurred termination fees of $7 million related to the cancellation of environmental capital expenditures, as well as a $7 million write-off of construction in progress for the unit in the first quarter. This quarter's results were positively impacted by an increase in capacity revenue of $8 million due to higher prices in New York and PJM in 2010.
Northeast:
Adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts for the first quarter decreased by $3 million to $26 million. During the quarter the region experienced an 8% sales increase to its contract customers due to the colder than normal weather driving contract revenue higher by $11 million. However, this gain was offset by a decline in merchant margins due to the expiration of a merchant capacity agreement and a 20% decline in merchant megawatt-hours sold. The increased load requirements resulted in lower merchant sales which are generally at higher prices.
South Central:
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Table 3: Corporate Liquidity
For the three months ended March 31, 2010, total liquidity, excluding collateral received, decreased by $584 million primarily due to lower cash and cash equivalent balances of $491 million and lower availability of the Synthetic Letter of Credit Facility of $157 million, partially offset by a $59 million increase in the Revolving Credit Facility. The change in cash and cash equivalents is primarily due to $114 million of cash flow from operations offset by $185 million of capital expenditures, $237 million in repayments to the Term Loan B facility, and $190 million of debt reduction as a result of the early settlement of the CSF I facility. This amount excludes $52 million of accrued interest bringing the total settlement of the CSF I facility to $242 million.
TEPCO Partners in STP 3&4
TEPCO, one of the world's largest operators of nuclear plants, will invest $155 millionthrough its U.S.-based subsidiaryfor a 10% share of NINA Investments Holdings' interest in the STP expansion, STP units 3&4, once a conditional commitment for U.S. Department of Energy loan guarantee is secured for the project. NINA Investments Holdings is a wholly owned subsidiary of NINA. This $155 million includes a $30 million option payment to NINA Investments Holdings, enabling TEPCO to buy an additional 10% share of the company for an additional $125 million within approximately one year.
With this initial transaction, TEPCO would hold a 9.2375% interest in STP 3&4, bringing NINA's share to 83.1375%, and leaving CPS Energy's share at 7.625%. TEPCO would also be responsible for 10% of all STP expansion capital costs and up to 20% of these costs if the company exercises its option to increase its ownership to 20% of NINA Investments Holdings' interest in the STP expansion. TEPCO would then own approximately 18% of the project itself, or roughly 500 megawatts of emission-free generationenough to power about 400,000 households.
Post-Combustion Carbon Capture Project selected by DOE
On March 9, 2010, NRG's 60 MW post-combustion carbon capture demonstration project was selected by the DOE to receive up to $154 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Scheduled to start operation in 2013, the project will be located at the WA Parish facility.
Letter of Intent to Acquire South Trent wind farm
On March 4, 2010, NRG signed a binding letter of intent to purchase the South Trent wind farm near Sweetwater, Texas. The 101 MW operating wind farm consists of 44 turbines and has a 20-year power purchase agreement with AEP Energy Partners, Inc. The proposed acquisition must be approved by the Public Utility Commission of Texas and is expected to close in the second quarter of this year.
 
Biomass use at Dunkirk moves forward
In April, NRG received a 10-year contract from the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) for power generated using renewable biomass fuel at the Dunkirk Generating Station in western New York. The project will produce up to 15 MWs of the station's output and is expected to be online by the end of 2011.
Outlook for 2010
NRG is reaffirming its 2010 adjusted EBITDA guidance of $2,200 million, and adjusting cash flow from operations guidance to $1,300 million as a result of collateral postings in the first quarter. Free cash flow improved by $112 million to $462 million reflecting the expected proceeds from the agreement with TEPCO to invest in NINA discussed in the announcement earlier today.
Table 4: 2010 Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA Guidance ($ in millions)
Earnings Conference Call
On May 10, 2010, NRG will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. eastern to discuss these results. To access the live webcast of the conference call and accompanying presentation materials, log on to NRG's website at and clicking on "Investors." The webcast will also be archived on the site.
http://www.nrgenergy.com
About NRG
NRG Energy, Inc., a Fortune 500 company, owns and operates one of the country's largest and most diverse power generation portfolios. Headquartered in Princeton, NJ, the Company's power plants provide more than 24,000 megawatts of generation capacity  enough to supply more than 20 million homes. NRG's retail business, Reliant Energy, serves 1.6 million residential, business, and commercial and industrial customers in Texas. A past recipient of the energy industry's highest honors  Platts Industry Leadership and Energy Company of the Year awards  NRG is a member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), a group of business and environmental organizations calling for mandatory legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. More information is available at
www.nrgenergy.com.
 
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include our adjusted EBITDA, cash flow from operations and free cash flow guidance, expected earnings, future growth, financial performance, environmental capital expenditures, and nuclear and other clean energy development, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, successful partnering relationships, government loan guarantees competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation facilities, adverse results in current and future litigation, the inability to implement value enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide processes, our ability to achieve the expected benefits and timing of development projects, and the 2010 Capital Allocation Plan.
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The adjusted EBITDA guidance and adjusted cash flow from operations, and free cash flows are estimates as of today's date, May 10, 2010 and are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable as of this date. NRG expressly disclaims any current intention to update such guidance. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at .
www.sec.gov
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
Appendix Table A-1: First Quarter 2010 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
 
Appendix Table A-2: First Quarter 2009 Regional EBITDA Reconciliation
The following table summarizes the calculation of adjusted EBITDA and provides a reconciliation to net income/(loss)
 
EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts are non GAAP financial measures. These measurements are not recognized in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. The presentation of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, net of MtM impacts should not be construed as an inference that NRG's future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items.
EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because NRG considers it an important supplemental measure of its performance and believes debt-holders frequently use EBITDA to analyze operating performance and debt service capacity. EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Because of these limitations, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to use to invest in the growth of NRG's business. NRG compensates for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. See the statements of cash flow included in the financial statements that are a part of this news release.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a further supplemental measure of operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for reorganization, restructuring, impairment and corporate relocation charges, discontinued operations, write downs and gains or losses on the sales of equity method investments; Exelon defense costs, and Texas retail acquisition and integration costs; and factors which we do not consider indicative of future operating performance. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each adjustment and the reasons NRG considers it appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. In addition, in evaluating adjusted EBITDA, the reader should be aware that in the future NRG may incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this news release.
Free cash flow is cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, preferred stock dividends and repowering capital expenditures net of project funding and is used by NRG predominantly as a forecasting tool to estimate cash available for debt reduction and other capital allocation alternatives. The reader is encouraged to evaluate each of these adjustments and the reasons NRG considers them appropriate for supplemental analysis. Because we have mandatory debt service requirements (and other non-discretionary expenditures) investors should not rely on adjusted cash flow from operating activities or free cash flow as a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures.


