FILE:NRG/NRG-8K-20110419162442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.06               Material Impairments
 
On April 19, 2011, NRG Energy, Inc. ("NRG") announced that it has determined to withdraw from further financial participation in Nuclear Innovation North American LLC ("NINA").  As a result, on April 18, 2011, NRG concluded that, as of March 31, 2011, a charge for the impairment for the entire book value of the net assets related to NINA is required under generally accepted accounting principles. NRG currently estimates that a pre-tax impairment charge of $481 million will be recognized in the first quarter of 2011.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
NINA is a majority-owned subsidiary of NRG focused on marketing, siting, developing, financing and investing in new advanced design nuclear projects in select markets across North America, including the planned STP Units 3 and 4 Project. Toshiba American Nuclear Energy Corporation, or TANE, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Toshiba Corporation, is the minority owner of NINA.  NINA is a bankruptcy remote entity under NRG's corporate structure and designated as an Excluded Project Subsidiary under NRG's senior credit facilities and senior unsecured notes, which require that NRG not be obligated to contribute any capital to service NINA's debt or fund the repayment of any NINA debt in the event of a default.
 
As previously announced on March 21, 2011, NINA suspended indefinitely all detailed engineering work and other pre-construction activities and, as a result, dramatically reduced the project workforce. NINA, going forward, will be focused solely on securing a combined operating license from the NRC and on obtaining a loan guarantee from the U.S. Department of Energy, two assets that are absolutely essential to the success of any future project development. TANE will be responsible for funding ongoing costs to continue the licensing process. In concurrence with the substantial reduction in NINA's project workforce, and to support NINA's reduced scope of work, NRG expects to incur one-time costs, related to a contribution to NINA, which are not expected to exceed $20 million thru 2011.
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
        
Exhibits.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include our expectations regarding the timing and completion of NRG's withdraw from participation in NINA, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "forecast," "plan," "believe" and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, unanticipated costs associated with NRG's cessation of participation in NINA, general economic conditions, successful partnering relationships, loan guarantees, hazards customary in the power industry, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, construction delays, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the condition of capital markets generally, and our ability to access capital markets.
 
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should
be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
April 19, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PRINCETON, NJ; April 19, 2011
 Recognizing the diminished prospects for the South Texas Project nuclear development project as a result of the ongoing nuclear incident in Japan, NRG Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NRG) today announced it will write down its investment in the development of South Texas Project units 3&4. NRG further announced that, while it will cooperate with and support its current partners and any prospective future partners in attempting to develop STP 3&4 successfully, NRG will not invest additional capital in the STP development effort.
 
"The tragic nuclear incident in Japan has introduced multiple uncertainties around new nuclear development in the United States which have had the effect of dramatically reducing the probability that STP 3&4 can be successfully developed in a timely fashion," said David Crane, President and CEO of NRG. "We continue to believe both in the absolute necessity of a U.S. nuclear renaissance and that STP 3&4 is the best new nuclear development project in the country bar none. However, the extraordinary challenges facing U.S. nuclear development in the present circumstance and the very considerable financial resources expended by NRG on the project over the past five years make it impossible for us to justify to our shareholders any further financial participation in the development of the STP project."
 
As a result, NRG expects to record a first-quarter 2011 pretax charge of approximately $481 million, for the impairment of all of the net assets of Nuclear Innovation North America (NINA), the Company's nuclear development joint venture with Toshiba American Nuclear Energy Corp. (TANE). The write down consists of $331 million of NINA net assets funded by NRG along with $150 million of net investment contributed by TANE.
 
As previously announced last month, NINA suspended indefinitely all detailed engineering work and other pre-construction activities and, as a result, dramatically reduced the project workforce. NINA, going forward, will be focused solely on securing a combined operating license from the NRC and on obtaining a loan guarantee from the U.S. Department of Energy, two assets that are absolutely essential to the success of any future project development. TANE will be responsible for funding ongoing costs to continue the licensing process. In concurrence with the substantial reduction in NINA's project workforce, and to support NINA's reduced scope of work, NRG expects to incur one-time costs, related to a contribution to NINA, which are not expected to exceed $20 million. These costs will be incurred, and expensed, primarily in the second quarter 2011.
 
NRG management will host an investor conference call on this topic at 5pm eastern today. You may listen in to the webcast from www.nrgenergy.com "Investors" page. Or you may dial 800.510.9836 or 617.614.3670 and use pass code: 79390802.
 
About NRG
 
NRG Energy, Inc. is a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 Index company that owns and operates one of the country's largest and most diverse power generation portfolios. Headquartered in Princeton, NJ, the Company's power plants provide 25,000 megawatts of generation capacityenough to supply approximately 20 million homes. NRG's retail businessesReliant Energy and Green Mountain Energy Companyserve more than 1.8 million residential, business, commercial and industrial customers. With major investments in solar and wind power, as well as electric vehicle infrastructure, NRG is working to help America transition to a clean energy economy. More information is available at www.nrgenergy.com.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include NRG's expectations regarding the South Texas nuclear development project and forward-looking statements typically can be identified by the use of words such as "will," "expect," "believe," and similar terms. Although NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation of markets and of environmental emissions, the failure to receive a loan guarantee from the U.S. Department of Energy or the inability to access other financing arrangements, and our ability to create and maintain successful partnering relationships.
 
NRG undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG's actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news release should be considered in connection with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG's future results included in NRG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
 
Contacts:
 


