FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20030508132427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
NOTE:  This Form 8-K/A amends the Form 8-K filed earlier today, May 8, 2003, only to add the required signature to the earlier filing, which was inadvertently omitted due to technical error.  All other text remains the same.
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
         On May 8, 2003, The Clorox Company (the "Company") issued a news release with respect to earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. 
Exhibit
99. News Release by The Clorox Company dated May 8, 2003.
                                      
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                                                                                THE CLOROX COMPANY
Date:  May 8, 2003                                                                    By:  /s/ PETER D. BEWLEY
                                                                                                       Peter D. Bewley
                                                                                                       Senior Vice President  General Counsel
                                                                                                       and Secretary

Clorox Earns 50 Cents for 150% EPS Growth in Third Quarter; Confirms Fourth-Quarter and Fiscal 2003 Outlook; Provides Preliminary Fiscal 2004 Outlook
Oakland
, Calif., May 8, 2003  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) (PSE: CLX) today announced that strong gross margins, working capital and cash flows contributed solidly to the companys results for its fiscal third quarter, which ended March 31, 2003.
Were very pleased with Cloroxs third-quarter and year-to-date performance, said Clorox Chairman and CEO Craig Sullivan. Positive trends across our business have been driven by the organizations focus on growth, margin expansion, cost savings and working capital management.
Excluding prior-year divestitures, overall company volume increased 2 percent compared to the year-ago quarter, driven by a 3 percent increase in the combined Household ProductsNorth America and Specialty Products segments, partially offset by declines in the Household ProductsLatin America/Other segment. Also excluding divestitures, overall company net sales increased 1 percent. Including divestitures, overall company volume was flat and net sales decreased 1 percent to $1.019 billion compared to $1.023 billion in the year-ago quarter.
Third-quarter gross margin of 45.5 percent increased by 300 basis points compared to the prior-year period due to cost-saving activities and favorable product mix. This was the sixth consecutive quarter of gross margin improvement for the company.
Clorox reported third-quarter net earnings of $110 million, or 50 cents per diluted share. This compares with net earnings of $46 million in the year-ago quarter, or 20 cents per diluted share, for an increase of 30 cents per diluted share, or 150 percent.
The current period net earnings include a $7 million charge related to a stock-performance incentive plan set in place in fiscal 1999, as referenced in Cloroxs Form10-Q for the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2002. This expense, which is recorded on the selling and administration line of the companys earnings statement, had been previously forecasted for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. However, given recent stock performance, Clorox recognized this expense in the third quarter based on its expectation that compensation awards under this plan will almost certainly be earned.
The companys year-ago pre-tax earnings include net charges of $67 million related to a $100 million goodwill impairment charge for its Argentina business, partially offset by a $33 million gain on divestitures.
Clorox delivered its ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvements in working capital. Average working capital was 1.8 percent of sales for the quarter due to improvements in managing inventories and receivables.
During the quarter, Clorox acquired approximately 1 million shares of the companys common stock at a total cost of about $
41
million under the board-authorized $1 billion repurchase program. This brings the total number of shares repurchased under this program to
approximately 14.8 million
at a total cost of about $621 million.
The attached earnings statements and segment information are reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). To clarify the companys results with respect to prior-year periods, Clorox has posted additional details regarding previously reported earnings on the companys Web site at www.clorox.com/investors/qr.html.
Third-Quarter Results by Business Segment
A summary of key third-quarter results by segment follows. All comparisons are with third quarter fiscal year 2002.
Household Products  North America
2% volume decline, 0% change excluding divestitures
5
% sales decline,
3
% decline excluding divestitures
4% pretax earnings decline
Volume and sales results in this segment were impacted by unusually high shipments and sales in the year-ago quarter due to the introduction of Clorox ReadyMop self-contained mopping systems, which were partially offset in the current quarter by increased shipments of Brita water-filtration systems and Glad bags and wraps, including all-time record trash bag volume. The variance between volume and sales is due to disproportionate sales of higher-priced Clorox ReadyMop starter kits in the prior year when the product was launched. Pretax earnings results were primarily driven by lower sales and increased advertising to launch eight new products, partially offset by cost savings and favorable product mix.
Specialty Products
5% volume growth, 9% growth excluding divestitures
6% sales growth, 9% growth excluding divestitures
12% pretax earnings decline
Strong volume growth was driven by increases in charcoal, auto products, food and cat litter, partially offset by a decline in insecticide shipments. Kingsford charcoal delivered its eighth consecutive quarter of record quarterly volume behind increased distribution.  Armor All auto appearance products and Scoop Away cat litter delivered all-time record shipments. Achieving record third-quarter volume were Fresh Step regular and scoopable cat litter, Hidden Valley bottled dressings and K C Masterpiece barbecue sauce.
While pre-tax earnings reflect strong sales growth and a 12 percent increase in operating profit in the current quarter, the decline is driven by a $36 million gain on the sale of Maxforce insecticides recorded in the year-ago quarter.
Household Products  Latin America & Other
4% volume decline, 4% decline excluding divestitures
4
% sales growth, 4% growth excluding divestitures
141
% pretax earnings improvement
Continued weak economic conditions in South America drove volume declines in this segment. Sales growth was driven by strong results in the companys Asia-Pacific Division due to positive mix and favorable foreign-exchange rates, and pricing leverage in the Latin America Division. The pretax earnings improvement reflects cost-saving initiatives and greater pricing leverage in South America in the current quarter, compared with prior-year pretax earnings, which included a $100 million pre-tax asset-impairment charge for the companys business in Argentina. The companys efforts to aggressively manage working capital resulted in a nearly 8-point improvement as a percent of sales in its Latin America Division for the quarter.
Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Outlook
For the fourth quarter, including a 1 percent negative impact from divestitures, Clorox continues to expect low- to mid-single-digit volume and sales growth compared with the year-ago quarter. Clorox also continues to expect earnings per diluted share in the range of
67
cents to
70
cents (GAAP). As previously communicated, this estimate reflects an overall increase in the companys effective tax rate as a result of the second-quarter Argentina impairment charge. The fourth-quarter 2003 outlook compares with
63
cents (GAAP) in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2002.
For fiscal 2003, the company continues to expect low-single-digit volume and sales growth. Clorox now expects earnings per diluted share in the range of $
2.2
2 to $
2.25
(GAAP) compared with $1.37 (GAAP) in fiscal 2002. Fiscal 2003 earnings expectations include an estimated reduction of 20 cents (of which 18 cents is reflected in the companys results through the third quarter) for noncash charges associated with the companys Latin America business and related tax effects. The year-ago earnings per share included net charges of 55 cents primarily related to asset-impairment charges for the companys businesses in Latin America, costs associated with plant closures and costs associated with reducing the size of the companys workforce, which were partially offset by gains on divestitures.
Preliminary Fiscal 2004 Expectations
At this time, Clorox expects that fiscal year 2004 results will be consistent with the companys previously communicated long-term expectations for double-digit earnings-per-diluted-share growth and 3 percent to 5 percent sales and volume growth. Specifically, for fiscal year 2004, the companys preliminary expectations are for earnings per diluted share in the range of $2.47 to $2.57 (GAAP).
For the first quarter of fiscal 2004, the company anticipates volume growth and increased cost savings versus the year-ago period. At the same time, first-quarter earnings are expected to be impacted by significant spending to launch new products, including Glad Press n Seal, as well as higher raw-material costs and R&D investments as compared to the year-ago quarter. As a result, Clorox projects first-quarter earnings per diluted share in the range of 57 cents to 62 cents (GAAP), compared with 65 cents (GAAP) in the prior-year quarter.
As we look ahead to 2004, we expect to achieve our top-line and earnings targets for the year, said Sullivan. Although the first quarter presents a tough comparison, we expect year-over-year volume increases each quarter in fiscal 2004, and top-line growth is projected to accelerate through the year behind significant new-product activity as we remain focused on our priority to . Our strategy to is expected to again deliver a high level of cost savings in fiscal 2004.
drive growth
cut costs everywhere
Todays Webcast
Today, at 1:30 p.m. Eastern time, Clorox will host a live audio webcast of its discussion with the investment community regarding the companys results in the fiscal third quarter. The webcast can be accessed at www.clorox.com/investors. Following the live discussion, a replay of the webcast will be archived for one week on the companys Web site.
The Clorox Company
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with fiscal year 2002 revenues of $4.0 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Armor All and STP auto care products, Fresh Step and Scoop Away cat litters, Kingsford charcoal briquets, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, and Glad bags, wraps and containers. With 9,500 employees worldwide, the company manufactures products in 25 countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded grants totaling more than $51 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges; and in fiscal 2002 made product donations valued at nearly $5 million. For more information about Clorox, visit the companys Web site at www.clorox.com.
Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements about future volume, sales and earnings growth, profitability, costs, cost savings or expectations, are forward-looking statements based on managements estimates, assumptions and projections. Important factors that could cause results to differ materially from managements expectations are described in Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation in the companys SEC Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2002, as updated from time to time in the companys SEC filings. Those factors include, but are not limited to, general economic and marketplace conditions and events; the companys costs, including the impact of world events on raw material costs and/or supply disruption; risks inherent in litigation and international operations; the success of new products; the companys ability to manage and obtain the benefits of joint venture activities; the success of information systems design and implementation; integration of acquisitions; and environmental, regulatory and intellectual property matters.
Contacts
The Clorox Company
Kathryn Caulfield  Media Relations, (510) 271-7209
Steve Austenfeld  Investor Relations, (510) 271-2270
The Clorox Company Statements of Consolidated Earnings
(Unaudited)
In millions, except earnings-per-share amounts
The Clorox Company Reconciliation Schedule
In millions
(1)
This table provides a quantitative reconciliation of the differences between financial measures that are not presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) and those calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that the presentation of a comparison of historical sales excluding divested operations (a non-GAAP financial measure) with sales in the current quarter (a GAAP measure) provides useful information to investors about current trends in the ongoing business. Management does not use this non-GAAP measure for any other purpose.
The Clorox Company Segment Information
In millions
(1) Percentages based on numbers that were not rounded.
Q3 Supplementary Financial Information
The Clorox Company
Supplemental Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Information  Preliminary* (unaudited)
Working Capital (WC) Update
Inventory dropped in most business units driven by SKU rationalization and improved inventory management. Charcoal inventories were below target due to continuing strong sales.
Accounts payables increased slightly as a result of higher marketing expenses.
Accounts receivables dropped primarily due to the implementation of more disciplined terms program in Latin America and the Charcoal business.
Capital expenditures were $43 million
$24 million related to infrastructure improvements, cost savings and new products.
$19 million for process and system implementation (Project Delta).
Depreciation and amortization was $53 million
Cash provided by operations
Preliminary cash provided by operations is $83 million or 48% below year-ago quarter primarily due to a $54 million contribution to the companys pension plan.
Share repurchases
This quarter the company repurchased a total of about 1.0 million shares at a cost of about $41 million
*Preliminary estimates. Final numbers will be published in our quarterly 10Q.
(1)
Current assets minus current liabilities excluding cash and short term debt.
(2)
Based on a two points average working capital divided by annualized NCS
(current quarter NCS x 4).


