FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20050202083436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.)
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 8.01  OTHER EVENTS
On November 22, 2004, The Clorox Company (the Company) filed a report on Form 8-K announcing the completion of a transaction (the Transaction) with Henkel KGaA and HC Investments, Inc. (collectively referred to as Henkel) pursuant to a Share Exchange Agreement (the Agreement).  Pro forma financial information reflecting the Transaction was set forth in the Form 8-K as an exhibit to the Form 8-K.
On February 2, 2005, The Clorox Company issued a press release with respect to its announcement of a change in accounting treatment of the impact of the Transaction, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99-1.  
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
                                    
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                                                        THE CLOROX COMPANY
Date:  February 2, 2005                                   By: /s/ LAURA STEIN
                                                                                    Laura Stein
                                                                                    Senior Vice President 
                                                                                    General Counsel


EXHIBIT 99-1
The Clorox Company
News Release
Clorox to Apply Discontinued Operations Accounting Treatment to Historical Results to Reflect Impact of Henkel Transaction
OAKLAND, Calif., Feb. 2, 2005  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) (PCX: CLX) today announced it has applied discontinued operations accounting treatment to its fiscal year 2004 and fiscal year-to-date 2005 results to reflect the impact of its share exchange with Henkel KgaA. As previously communicated, the share exchange and related financing have been completed.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) recently ratified the consensus of its Emerging Issues Task Force in EITF Issue No. 03-13, which provided additional guidance for determining when components of a business can be treated as discontinued operations. After reviewing this pronouncement, Clorox determined it should record as discontinued operations the operating results and gain associated with the businesses it transferred to Henkel, as well as income generated by its interim service agreements with Henkel. Because the companys investment in the Henkel Iberica, S.A., joint venture cannot be treated as discontinued operations, the earnings, royalties and gain from the exchange of the joint venture investment are recorded in continuing operations as other income. Additionally, the full tax effect of the transaction will be reflected in the companys second-quarter results.
To reflect these changes, Clorox has reclassified the operating results of the transferred businesses as discontinued operations for each quarter of fiscal year 2004, the full fiscal year 2004 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2005. This data is available within the Investors section of the companys Web site at www.TheCloroxCompany.com > Investors > Financial Information > Financial Results.
Second-Quarter Conference Call and Webcast
On Monday, Feb. 7, 2005, Clorox will host a live audio webcast of a discussion with the investment community regarding the companys second-quarter results, which will be released earlier that day. The webcast will begin at 10:30 a.m. Pacific time (1:30 p.m. Eastern time), and can be accessed at www.TheCloroxCompany.com/investors/index.html. A replay of the webcast will be available for one week on the companys Web site.
The Clorox Company
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with fiscal year 2004 revenues of $4.3 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Armor All and STP auto care products, Fresh Step and Scoop Away cat litters, Kingsford charcoal briquets, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration systems, and Glad bags, wraps and containers. With 8,600 employees worldwide, the company manufactures products in 25 countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $58.3 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges; and in fiscal 2004 alone made product donations valued at $5 million. For more information about Clorox, visit
www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements about future volume, sales and earnings growth, profitability, costs, cost savings or expectations, are forward-looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. Important factors that could cause results to differ materially from management's expectations are described in "Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion & Analysis" in the company's SEC Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2004, as updated from time to time in the company's SEC filings. Those factors include, but are not limited to, general economic and marketplace conditions and events; competitors' actions; the company's costs, including changes in the companys exposure to commodity cost increases; the effects on cash flow of tax payments, debt payments and share repurchases, including interest costs and repayment of debt incurred to finance repurchases and the Henkel exchange transaction; the ability to manage and realize the benefits of joint ventures and other cooperative relationships; risks inherent in litigation and international operations; the success of new products; the integration of acquisitions; and environmental, regulatory and intellectual property matters.
The companys forward-looking statements are and will be based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the Securities laws.
Media Relations
Dan Staublin (510) 271-1622
Investor Relations
Steve Austenfeld (510) 271-2270
Michael Iracondo (510) 271-2156
Discontinued Operations Accounting Treatment Reflecting Impact of Henkel Transaction
Fiscal 2004, First Quarter
The information below reclassifies the operating results of the businesses exchanged with Henkel in November 2004 as discontinued operations. Based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, Clorox's equity earnings in Henkel Iberica continue to be reflected as a component of continuing operations.  Audited historical financial statements reflecting the businesses transferred to Henkel as discontinued operations will be provided when available.
Fiscal 2004, Second Quarter
The information below reclassifies the operating results of the businesses exchanged with Henkel in November 2004 as discontinued operations. Based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, Clorox's equity earnings in Henkel Iberica continue to be reflected as a component of continuing operations.  Audited historical financial statements reflecting the businesses transferred to Henkel as discontinued operations will be provided when available.
 
Fiscal 2004, Third Quarter
The information below reclassifies the operating results of the businesses exchanged with Henkel in November 2004 as discontinued operations. Based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, Clorox's equity earnings in Henkel Iberica continue to be reflected as a component of continuing operations.  Audited historical financial statements reflecting the businesses transferred to Henkel as discontinued operations will be provided when available.
 
Fiscal 2004, Fourth Quarter and Full Year
The information below reclassifies the operating results of the businesses exchanged with Henkel in November 2004 as discontinued operations. Based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, Clorox's equity earnings in Henkel Iberica continue to be reflected as a component of continuing operations. Audited historical financial statements reflecting the businesses transferred to Henkel as discontinued operations will be provided when available.
The information below reclassifies the operating results of the businesses exchanged with Henkel in November 2004 as discontinued operations. Based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, Clorox's equity earnings in Henkel Iberica continue to be reflected as a component of continuing operations.  Audited historical financial statements reflecting the businesses transferred to Henkel as discontinued operations will be provided when available.
 
Fiscal 2005, First Quarter
The information below reclassifies the operating results of the businesses exchanged with Henkel in November 2004 as discontinued operations. Based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, Clorox's equity earnings in Henkel Iberica continue to be reflected as a component of continuing operations.  Audited historical financial statements reflecting the businesses transferred to Henkel as discontinued operations will be provided when available.
Summary: Q1 Fiscal 2004 Through Q1 Fiscal 2005
The information below reclassifies the operating results of the businesses exchanged with Henkel in November 2004 as discontinued operations. Based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, Clorox's equity earnings in Henkel Iberica continue to be reflected as a component of continuing operations.  Audited historical financial statements reflecting the businesses transferred to Henkel as discontinued operations will be provided when available.
Volume Growth Statement: Q1 Fiscal 2004 Through Q1 Fiscal 2005



