FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20050505083544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.)
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On May 5, 2005, The Clorox Company issued a press release with respect to its earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99-1. 
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
                                    
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                                                        THE CLOROX COMPANY
Date:  May 5, 2005                              By: /s/ LAURA STEIN
                                                                        Laura Stein
                                                                        Senior Vice President 
                                                                        General Counsel


EXHIBIT 99-1
The Clorox Company News Release
Clorox Reports 76 Cents EPS in Third Quarter; Updates Fiscal Year 2005 Outlook and Provides Initial Outlook for Fiscal 2006
OAKLAND, Calif., May 5, 2005  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) (PCX: CLX) today reported that higher sales, new products and strong cost savings contributed to solid results for the companys fiscal third quarter, which ended March 31, 2005.
Were pleased with our 3 percent sales growth for the quarter following strong first-half sales growth of 6 percent, said Chairman and CEO Jerry Johnston. We continue to have intense commodity price pressure, and we are taking steps to mitigate these costs. Overall, we feel good about the fundamental health of our brands and businesses.
Third-Quarter Highlights
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), Clorox reported third-quarter net earnings of $118 million, or 76 cents per diluted share, based on weighted average shares outstanding of about 156 million. This compares with net earnings in the year-ago period of $126 million, or 59 cents per diluted share, based on weighted average shares outstanding of about 214 million, for an increase of 17 cents per diluted share, or 29 percent.
As previously reported, Clorox has reached an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service related to the companys investment in a limited partnership fund. Separately, Clorox expects to repatriate some foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. These two activities had a combined benefit of $14 million in net earnings, or 9 cents diluted EPS, in the current quarter.
Included in diluted EPS for the current quarter are 2 cents of costs related to a number of items, including performance unit accruals and certain tax adjustments, that previously had not been projected in the companys outlook.
Third-quarter sales grew 3 percent to $1.09 billion, compared with $1.05 billion in the year-ago period. Volume growth of 3 percent was driven by increased shipments across all segments, notably in the Latin America, home care, cat litter and Glad products businesses, offset by somewhat weaker-than-expected shipments of seasonally affected businesses like charcoal, auto-care products and salad dressings. On a year-to-date basis, sales grew 5 percent to $3.13 billion, compared with $2.98 billion in the year-ago period.
Gross margin in the third quarter declined 260 basis points versus the year-ago period to 41.8 percent, primarily due to increased raw-material costs, partially offset by cost savings. Third-quarter gross margin reflects accelerating commodity costs throughout the year. Year-to-date gross margin declined 50 basis points versus the year-ago period to 42.8 percent.
Clorox generated $58 million of cash provided by operations in the third quarter, compared with $203 million in the year-ago period. The year-over-year decrease was primarily due to a tax payment in the current quarter related to the aforementioned IRS agreement. For the fiscal year to date, the company generated $463 million of cash provided by operations, compared with $531 million in the year-ago period.
Third-Quarter Results by Business Segment
Following is a summary of key third-quarter results by business segment. Effective the third quarter, segments were realigned and renamed as disclosed in the companys second-quarter Form 10-Q. All comparisons are with the third quarter of fiscal year 2004.
Household Group  North America
includes U.S. bleach, cleaning, water-filtration and professional products; the auto-care business; and all products marketed in Canada.
Compared with the year-ago period, the segment had flat sales, 1 percent volume growth and 2 percent pretax earnings decline.
Sales results reflected increased shipments and lower consumer-promotion spending, offset by unfavorable product mix and higher trade-promotion spending. Notably, the home-care business delivered all-time record shipments of Clorox disinfecting wipes and strong shipments of the new Clorox ToiletWand disposable toilet-cleaning system. The company reported decreased shipments of Clorox ReadyMop mopping system due to category decline and Brita water-filtration products primarily due to a shift in the timing of promotional activities.
The pretax earnings decline reflected increased raw-material costs and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by the benefit of cost savings.  
Specialty Group
includes the plastic bags, wraps and containers categories marketed in the United States, and charcoal, cat litter and food products.
Compared with the year-ago period, the segment had
5 percent sales growth, 2 percent volume growth and 4 percent pretax earnings decline. The strong sales results were driven by increased shipments of Glad trash bags and cat litter.
Clorox delivered year-over-year volume growth for Glad trash bags behind the continued strength of Glad ForceFlex trash bags, and increased shipments of GladWare containers. The company also delivered volume growth for Scoop Away cat litters and record year-over-year shipments of Fresh Step cat litters. These positive results were partially offset by decreased shipments of Glad Press n Seal wrap compared to the year-ago period when the company completed the product launch, and Kingsford charcoal primarily due to poor weather. Sales growth outpaced volume growth due to favorable product mix and the benefit of price increases, partially offset by higher trade-promotion spending
.
The pretax earnings decline reflected increased raw-material costs and $5 million in charges, primarily associated with the previously announced closing of a Glad products manufacturing facility, partially offset by cost savings.  
International
includes operations outside the United States and Canada.
Compared with the year-ago period, the segment had 8 percent sales growth, 9 percent volume growth and 19 percent pretax earnings decline. The strong sales growth was driven by increased shipments of laundry and cleaning products in Latin America. The pretax earnings decline reflected higher commodity costs in the current quarter, and earnings and royalties in the year-ago quarter from the companys former investment in the Henkel Iberica joint venture. These factors were partially offset by the benefit of higher volume and price increases in the current quarter.
Fiscal 2005 Outlook
For the fourth quarter, Clorox has raised its outlook for sales growth to the range of 4-6 percent. The company continues to anticipate fourth-quarter earnings per diluted share in the range of 91-97 cents.
For the full fiscal year, Clorox now anticipates higher sales growth in the range of 4-6 percent. The companys outlook is for earnings per diluted share in the range of $6.02 to $6.08, and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in the range of $2.80 to $2.86. This diluted EPS range includes the nonrecurring earnings, royalties and gain from the exchange of the Henkel Iberica joint venture investment of 14 cents, including the reversal of related deferred taxes. The companys fiscal year 2005 outlook assumes full-year weighted average shares outstanding of about 180 million.
Initial Fiscal 2006 Outlook
For fiscal year 2006, Clorox anticipates sales growth within its previously communicated long-term target of 3-5 percent. The company anticipates earnings per diluted share in the range of $3.00-$3.11.These estimates include the impact of expensing stock options, which is effective with the new fiscal year. The company estimates the impact of options expensing to be about 11-13 cents diluted EPS. To help offset commodity price pressures, the company will increase prices on selected items of Clorox liquid bleach by an average of 9 percent, effective mid-July. At the same time, the company will also increase prices on Clorox 2 color-safe bleach and Clorox Clean-Up cleaner. The combined effect of commodity cost pressure, price increases and cost savings is expected to result in lower gross margin in the first half of the year, but overall higher gross margin for the full year.
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, Clorox anticipates sales growth of 3-5 percent and diluted EPS in the range of 65-72 cents.
Note: Percentage and basis-point changes noted in this news release are calculated based on rounded numbers. For additional information about the companys results, including definitions of financial terms used in this earnings release and on todays conference call with the investment community (details below), visit the Financial Results area within the Investors section of the companys Web site at www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
Todays Webcast
Today at 10:30 a.m. Pacific time (1:30 p.m. Eastern time), Clorox will host a live audio webcast of a discussion with the investment community regarding the companys third-quarter results. The webcast can be accessed at www.TheCloroxCompany.com/investors/index.html. Following a live discussion, a replay of the webcast will be archived for one week on the companys Web site.
The Clorox Company
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with fiscal year 2004 revenues of $4.2 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Armor All and STP auto care products, Fresh Step and Scoop Away cat litters, Kingsford charcoal briquets, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration systems, and Glad bags, wraps and containers. With 8,600 employees worldwide, the company manufactures products in 25 countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $58.3 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges; and in fiscal 2004 alone made product donations valued at $5 million. For more information about Clorox, visit www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements about future volume, sales and earnings growth, profitability, costs, cost savings or expectations, are forward-looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. Important factors that could cause results to differ materially from management's expectations are described in "Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion & Analysis" in the company's SEC Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2004, as updated from time to time in the company's SEC filings. Those factors include, but are not limited to, general economic and marketplace conditions and events; competitors' actions; the company's costs, including changes in exposure to commodity costs such as resin; the companys actual cost performance; risks inherent in litigation and international operations; the ability to manage and realize the benefits of joint ventures and other cooperative relationships, including the companys joint venture with Procter & Gamble regarding the companys Glad plastic bags, wraps and containers business; the success of new products; the integration of acquisitions and mergers; the divestiture of non-strategic businesses; and environmental, regulatory and intellectual property matters. In addition, the companys future performance is subject to risks following the share exchange transaction with Henkel, including the sustainability of cash flows and the actual level of debt costs. Declines in cash flow, whether resulting from tax payments, debt payments, share repurchases or otherwise, or interest cost increases greater than management expects, could adversely affect the companys earnings.
The companys forward-looking statements are and will be based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws.
Media Relations                               Investor Relations
Dan Staublin (510) 271-1622                Steve Austenfeld (510) 271-2270
                                                         Jill Koval (510) 271-3253
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Unaudited)
In millions, except share and per-share amounts
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
In millions
Working Capital (WC) Update
Receivables declined due to improved collections and shorter payment terms.
Inventory was higher primarily due to normalization of charcoal inventory levels and increased new product inventory of trash bags and bathroom-cleaning system.
Glad ForceFlex
Clorox BathWand
Accounts payable increased primarily due to higher commodity prices, while accrued liabilities decreased as a result of tax payments.
Capital expenditures were $31 million
Depreciation and amortization was $48 million
Cash provided by continuing operations was $52 million (5 percent of sales) and 73 percent below the three-month period ended March 31, 2004, driven primarily by tax payments.
*Preliminary estimates. Final numbers will be published in our Form 10-Q.
(1)
Working capital is defined as current assets minus current liabilities excluding cash and short-term debt.
(2)
Based on a two points average working capital divided by annualized net sales
(current quarter net sales x 4).
(3)
Q304 working capital as a percentage of net sales and days in receivables, net, inventories and accounts payable are calculated based on balances as reported in our Form 10-Q filed for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2004, and do not reflect reclassification of operating results of businesses transferred to Henkel as discontinued operations.



