FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20050926172840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.)
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01
                    
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On September 20, 2005, the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of The Clorox Company
(the "Company") established the base salary levels for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2006 ("fiscal year 2006") for its executive officers, including the chief executive officer and the next four most highly compensated executive officers (the "Named Officers") as of the end of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. The salaries for all executive officers with the exception of Gerald E. Johnston are effective as of October 1, 2005.  Gerald E. Johnston's salary will be effective January 1, 2006:
 
 
 
In addition, the Compensation Committee approved target bonus opportunities for the Named Officers under the Company's Executive Incentive Compensation Plan and Annual Incentive Plan for fiscal year 2006 as follows:
 
 
The opportunities for bonuses are based on achievement of corporate financial performance measured against targets for earnings per share from continuing operations, working capital as a percentage of sales and net sales growth.  The Compensation Committee has discretion to reduce, but not to increase, awards computed in accordance with these criteria based on an assessment of performance against performance measures that support the key elements of the Company strategy: building consumer, customer, cost, people and process capabilities and other key individual strategies.  The target opportunities are based upon each individual's base salary times his or her short term incentive target.  The Compensation Committee approved maximum bonus awards that could be achieved if all perfomance measures are significantly exceeded as follows: 384% of base salary for the chief executive officer and 240% of base salary for each of the other Named Officers.  If the corporate performance measures are not met, actual bonuses could be 0.
 
 
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
(d)           On September 21, 2005, the Company announced that Pamela Thomas-Graham had been elected to the Company's board of directors, effective September 20, 2005.
 
 
                A press release announcing the election was issued on September 21, 2005, a copy of which is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
 
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)   Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Pamela Thomas-Graham Elected to Clorox Board of Directors
 
 
OAKLAND, Calif., Sept. 21, 2005  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) (PCX: CLX) today announced the election of Pamela Thomas-Graham to its board of directors.
 
Thomas-Graham, 42, is the group president for the better and moderate apparel brands at Liz Claiborne, Inc. In this capacity, she is responsible for the flagship Liz Claiborne business, as well as several other department store lines. Prior to assuming this role, she was chairman, president and chief executive officer of CNBC, the global business news network, and president and chief executive officer of CNBC.com, the network's Web site. She joined NBC in 1999 from management consulting firm McKinsey & Company, where she was the firm's first black female partner and a member of its consumer practice. She is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Harvard College, Harvard Business School, and Harvard Law School, where she served as an editor of the Harvard Law Review.
 
Thomas-Graham is the author of three mystery novels published by Simon & Schuster: "A Darker Shade of Crimson," "Blue Blood" and "Orange Crushed." She serves on the boards of the New York City Opera, the American Red Cross of Greater New York, and Idenix Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ: IDIX).
 
The Clorox Company
 
$62.3 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges; and in fiscal-year 2005 alone made product donations valued at $4.9 million. For more information about Clorox, visit www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with fiscal-year 2005 revenues of $4.4 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers' most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Armor All and STP auto care products, Fresh Step and Scoop Away cat litters, Kingsford charcoal briquets, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration systems, and Glad bags, wraps and containers. With 7,600 employees worldwide, the company manufactures products in 25 countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than
 


