FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20050207083550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.)
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On February 7, 2005, The Clorox Company issued a press release with respect to its earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99-1. 
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
                                     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                                                        THE CLOROX COMPANY
Date:  February 7, 2005                                   By: /s/ LAURA STEIN
                                                                                    Laura Stein
                                                                                    Senior Vice President 
                                                                                    General Counsel


EXHBIT 99-1
The Clorox Company
News Release
Clorox Reports Strong Second-Quarter Results; Provides Outlook for Third Quarter and Updates Fiscal 2005 Outlook
OAKLAND, Calif., Feb. 7, 2005  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) (PCX: CLX) today announced that strong sales growth, cost savings and margin-enhancing activities contributed solidly to the companys results for its fiscal second quarter, which ended Dec. 31, 2004.
Were very pleased with our second-quarter performance, said Chairman and CEO Jerry Johnston. We saw strength across nearly every aspect of the business, and Clorox people delivered even better results than expected.
Cloroxs focus on its long-term strategy is reflected in the companys results, Johnston reported. Core business strength, increased market shares and new products are helping drive top-line growth, he said. Our efforts to cut costs and enhance margins are evident in benefits from several areas, including our focus on lean manufacturing. And importantly, we also closed our share-exchange transaction with Henkel.
As announced on Feb. 2, Clorox has applied discontinued operations accounting treatment to its fiscal year 2004 and fiscal year-to-date 2005 results to reflect the impact of its share exchange with Henkel KgaA. This historical data is available within the Investors section of the companys Web site at www.TheCloroxCompany.com / Investors / Financial Information / Financial Results.
Q2 Earnings-Per-Diluted-Share (EPS)  GAAP
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), Clorox reported total second-quarter net earnings of $699 million, or $3.68 per diluted share, compared with net earnings in the year-ago period of $109 million, or 51 cents per diluted share. Clorox reported second-quarter GAAP earnings from continuing operations of $136 million, or 72 cents per diluted share, versus earnings from continuing operations of $101 million, or 47 cents per diluted share, in the year-ago period. The company reported second-quarter GAAP earnings from discontinued operations of $563 million, or $2.96 per diluted share, compared with earnings from discontinued operations in the year-ago period of $8 million, or 4 cents per diluted share.
Q2 EPS From Continuing Operations, Excluding Nonrecurring Earnings Impacts of Henkel Transaction  Non-GAAP
(1)
(1)
            The preceding table provides a quantitative reconciliation of the differences between financial measures that are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) and those calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management believes the presentation of a comparison of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding nonrecurring earnings impacts of the Henkel transaction (a non-GAAP financial measure) with diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (a GAAP measure) provides useful information to investors about current trends in the ongoing business.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations included 13 cents related to the earnings, royalties and gain from the Henkel Iberica joint venture investment, and associated tax effects. Excluding nonrecurring earnings impacts of the Henkel transaction, the company had second-quarter non-GAAP earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of 59 cents, compared with 47 cents per diluted share in the year-ago period.
Second-Quarter Highlights
Second-quarter sales grew 9 percent to $1.0 billion, compared with $920 million in the year-ago period. Sales and volume grew across nearly all businesses, most notably home care, Glad trash bags and the Latin America Division. Sales growth outpaced the 8 percent growth in volume primarily due to favorable foreign exchange rates and the continued benefit of previous price increases.
Gross margin in the second quarter grew 40 basis points versus the year-ago period to 43.1 percent, primarily due to stronger-than-expected cost savings, partially offset by increased raw-material costs. Clorox generated $189 million of cash provided by operations in the second quarter, compared with $188 million in the year-ago period.
Second-Quarter Results by Business Segment
Following is a summary of key second-quarter results by segment. All comparisons are with the second quarter of fiscal year 2004. All results, including sales and volume, include the aforementioned discontinued operations treatment of historical results to reflect the impact of the Henkel transaction.
Household Products  North America
9% sales growth
11% pretax earnings growth
9% volume growth
Strong sales growth in the segment was driven by increased shipments of Glad trash bags and home-care products. The company delivered its 10 consecutive quarter of year-over-year volume growth for Glad trash bags behind the continued strength of Glad ForceFlex trash bags. The home-care business delivered increased shipments of Clorox disinfecting wipes, Clorox toilet bowl cleaner and Pine-Sol cleaner. Also contributing to sales growth were strong shipments of the new Clorox ToiletWand disposable toilet-cleaning system. These positive results were partially offset by decreased shipments of Clorox ReadyMop mopping system. Pretax earnings reflected the benefit of cost savings and increased sales, partially offset by unfavorable raw-material expenses.  
th
Specialty Products
5% sales growth
13% pretax earnings growth
3% volume growth
Sales growth in the segment was primarily driven by increased shipments of cat litter behind the 11 consecutive quarter of year-over-year volume growth for Scoop Away cat litters and all-time record shipments of Fresh Step cat litters. Also contributing to sales growth were increased shipments of Hidden Valley bottled salad dressings. These positive results were partially offset by continued strong competitive activity in auto-care products. Sales growth outpaced volume growth primarily due to more efficient trade-promotion spending, a shift in timing of some promotional activities and price increases. Pretax earnings reflected strong cost savings, partially offset by increased raw-material costs.
th
International
16% sales growth
19% pretax earnings growth
12% volume growth
Strong sales growth in the segment was driven by increased volume behind new products and category and share growth in Latin America, and the continued growth of the newly introduced Clorox home-cleaning products in Australia and New Zealand. Sales growth outpaced volume growth primarily due to favorable foreign-exchange rates and price increases. Pretax earnings reflected the benefit of higher sales and strong cost savings, partially offset by increased raw-material costs.
Outlook
The outlook reported below includes the aforementioned discontinued operations treatment of historical results to reflect the impact of the Henkel transaction.
Third-Quarter Outlook
For the third quarter, Clorox anticipates sales growth in the range of 3 percent to 5 percent. On a GAAP basis, the company anticipates earnings per diluted share from continuing operations and fully diluted earnings per share in the range of 62 cents to 68 cents. Cloroxs third-quarter earnings from continuing operations will not be impacted by the companys investment in the Henkel Iberica joint venture, and should not be materially affected by transitional services provided to Henkel.
Fiscal 2005 Outlook
For the full fiscal year, Clorox anticipates sales growth in the range of 3 percent to 5 percent. On a GAAP basis, Clorox now anticipates earnings per diluted share in the range of $5.93 to $6.03, which reflects the companys strong second-quarter results, partially offset by higher commodity costs. The company now anticipates earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in the range of $2.70 to $2.80. This diluted EPS range includes the nonrecurring earnings, royalties and gain from the exchange of the Henkel Iberica joint venture investment of 14 cents, including the reversal of deferred taxes. The companys fiscal year 2005 outlook assumes full-year weighted average shares outstanding of about 180 million.
Note: Percentage and basis-point changes noted in this news release are calculated based on rounded numbers. For additional information about the companys results, including definitions of financial terms used in this earnings release and on todays conference call with the investment community (details below), visit the Financial Results area within the Investors section of the companys Web site at www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
Todays Webcast
Today at 10:30 a.m. Pacific time (1:30 p.m. Eastern time), Clorox will host a live audio webcast of a discussion with the investment community regarding the companys second-quarter results. The webcast can be accessed at www.TheCloroxCompany.com/investors/index.html. Following a live discussion, a replay of the webcast will be archived for one week on the companys Web site.
The Clorox Company
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with fiscal year 2004 revenues of $4.3 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Armor All and STP auto care products, Fresh Step and Scoop Away cat litters, Kingsford charcoal briquets, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration systems, and Glad bags, wraps and containers. With 8,600 employees worldwide, the company manufactures products in 25 countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $58.3 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges; and in fiscal 2004 alone made product donations valued at $5 million. For more information about Clorox, visit www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements about future volume, sales and earnings growth, profitability, costs, cost savings or expectations, are forward-looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. Important factors that could cause results to differ materially from management's expectations are described in "Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion & Analysis" in the company's SEC Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2004, as updated from time to time in the company's SEC filings. Those factors include, but are not limited to, general economic and marketplace conditions and events; competitors' actions; the company's costs, including changes in exposure to commodity costs; the companys actual cost performance; risks inherent in litigation and international operations; the ability to manage and realize the benefits of joint ventures and other cooperative relationships, including the companys joint venture with Procter & Gamble regarding the companys Glad plastic bags, wraps and containers business; the success of new products; the integration of acquisitions and mergers; the divestiture of non-strategic businesses; and environmental, regulatory and intellectual property matters. In addition, the companys future performance is subject to risks particular to the share exchange transaction with Henkel, including the sustainability of cash flows and the actual level of debt costs. Declines in cash flow, whether resulting from tax payments, debt payments, share repurchases or otherwise, or interest cost increases greater than management expects, could adversely affect the companys earnings.
The companys forward-looking statements are and will be based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws.
Media Relations
Dan Staublin (510) 271-1622
Investor Relations
Steve Austenfeld (510) 271-2270
Michael Iracondo (510) 271-2156
The Clorox Company
Supplemental Balance Sheet Information  Preliminary* (unaudited)
Working Capital (WC) Update
Receivables were higher driven by sales growth, however days declined due to improved collections and shorter payment terms.
Inventory was higher primarily due to normalization of charcoal inventory levels and increased bags and wraps inventory behind the launch of .
Glad ForceFlex
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities increased primarily due to higher commodity prices, costs associated with the Glad restructuring and tax-related accruals.
Capital expenditures were $58 million
Depreciation and amortization was $94 million
Cash provided by continuing operations
Cash provided by continuing operations was $370 million, 18 percent of sales and 26 percent above the six-month period ended December 31, 2003, driven primarily by higher earnings in the current six-month period and a $37 million pension contribution made in the year-ago period.
*Preliminary estimates. Final numbers will be published in our Form 10-Q.
(1)
Working capital is defined as current assets minus current liabilities excluding cash and short-term debt.
(2)
Based on a two points average working capital divided by annualized net sales
(current quarter net sales x 4).
(3)
Q2 04 working capital as percentage of net sales and days in receivables, net, inventories and accounts payable calculated on balances as reported in our Form 10-Q filed for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2003, and do not reflect reclassification of operating results of businesses transferred to Henkel as discontinued operations.



