FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20051121143910.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.)
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On November 16, 2005, at the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") of The Clorox Company (the "Company"), the stockholders of the Company approved the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan") and the Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the "EIC Plan"). A description of the terms of the 2005 Plan and the EIC Plan can be found in the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 4, 2005.
     Copies of the 2005 Plan and EIC Plan are filed hereto as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
1. .
Establishment, Objectives and Duration
     (a) . The Clorox Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Company"), hereby establishes an incentive compensation plan to be known as "The Clorox Company 2005 Stock Incentive Plan" (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan"). The Plan permits the granting of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units and Other Stock-Based Awards. The Plan is effective as of November 16, 2005 (the "Effective Date"), subject to the approval of the Plan by the stockholders of the Company at the 2005 Annual Meeting. Definitions of capitalized terms used in the Plan are contained in the attached Glossary, which is an integral part of the Plan.
Establishment of the Plan
     (b) . The objectives of the Plan are to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of substantial responsibility, to provide additional incentive to Participants and to optimize the profitability and growth of the Company through incentives that are consistent with the Company's goals and that link the personal interests of Participants to those of the Company's stockholders. The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of Participants who make or are expected to make significant contributions to the Company's success and to allow Participants to share in the success of the Company.
Objectives of the Plan
     (c) . No Award may be granted under the Plan after the day immediately preceding the tenth (10) anniversary of the Effective Date, or such earlier date as the Board shall determine. The Plan will remain in effect with respect to outstanding Awards until no Awards remain outstanding.
Duration of the Plan
th
2. .
Administration of the Plan
     (a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee (the "Committee") as the Board shall select consisting of two or more members of the Board each of whom is intended to be a "non-employee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 (or any successor rule) of the Exchange Act, an "outside director" under regulations promulgated under Section 162(m) of the Code, and an "independent director" under New York Stock Exchange Listing standards. The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the discretion of, the Board.
The Committee
     (b) . Subject to Applicable Laws and the provisions of the Plan (including any other powers given to the Committee hereunder), and except as otherwise provided by the Board, the Committee shall have full and final authority in its
Authority of the Committee
 
discretion to take all actions determined by the Committee to be necessary in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, discretion to:
     (i) select the Employees, Directors and Consultants to whom Awards may from time to time be granted hereunder;
     (ii) determine whether and to what extent Awards are granted hereunder;
     (iii) determine the size and types of Awards granted hereunder;
     (iv) approve forms of Award Agreement for use under the Plan;
     (v) determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted hereunder;
     (vi) establish performance goals for any Performance Period and determine whether such goals were satisfied;
     (vii) amend the terms of any outstanding Award granted under the Plan in the event of a Participant's termination of employment or in the event of a Change in Control, provided that, except as otherwise provided in Section 18, no such amendment shall reduce the Exercise Price of outstanding Options or the grant price of outstanding SARs without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, and provided further, that any amendment that would adversely affect the Participant's rights under an outstanding Award shall not be made without the Participant's written consent;
     (viii) construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and any Award Agreement entered into under the Plan, and to decide all questions of fact arising in its application; and
     (ix) take such other action, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as the Committee deems appropriate.
As permitted by Applicable Laws, the Committee may delegate its authority as identified herein, including the power and authority to make Awards to Participants who are not "insiders" subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, pursuant to such conditions and limitations as the Committee may establish.
         (c) . All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons, including the Company, its Subsidiaries, its stockholders, Employees, Directors, Consultants and their estates and beneficiaries.
Effect of Committee's Decision
3. .
Shares Subject to the Plan; Effect of Grants; Individual Limits
         (a) . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 18 hereof, the maximum number of Shares which may be issued pursuant to Awards under the Plan shall be 2,000,000 Shares, plus any Shares remaining available for issuance under the Prior Plans as of the Effective Date, plus the number of Shares subject to outstanding awards
Number of Shares Available for Grants
 
under the Prior Plans at the Effective Date that are deemed not delivered under the Prior Plans pursuant to paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this Section 3(a).
     (i) Shares that are potentially deliverable under an Award or a Prior Plan award that expires or is canceled, forfeited, settled in cash or otherwise settled without the delivery of Shares shall not be treated as having been issued under the Plan or a Prior Plan.
     (ii) Shares that are held back or tendered (either actually or constructively by attestation) to cover the exercise price or tax withholding obligations with respect to an Award or Prior Plan award shall not be treated as having been issued under the Plan or a Prior Plan.
     (iii) Shares that are issued pursuant to awards that are assumed, converted or substituted in connection with a merger, acquisition, reorganization or similar transaction shall not be treated as having been issued under the Plan.
     (iv) Shares that are repurchased in the open market with Option Proceeds from Awards or Prior Plan awards shall not be treated as having been issued under the Plan or a Prior Plan; provided, however, that the aggregate number of Shares deemed not issued pursuant to the repurchase of Shares with Option Proceeds shall not be greater than the amount of such proceeds divided by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise of the Option or Prior Plan option giving rise to such proceeds.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (i) through (iv) above, for purposes of determining the number of Shares available for grant as Incentive Stock Options, only Shares that are subject to an Award or a Prior Plan award that expires or is cancelled, forfeited or settled in cash shall be treated as not having been issued under the Plan or a Prior Plan.
The Shares to be issued pursuant to Awards may be authorized but unissued Shares or treasury Shares.
         (b) . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 18 hereof, the following rules shall apply with respect to Awards:
Individual Limits
     (i) Options and SARs: The maximum aggregate number of Shares with respect to which Options and SARs may be granted in any 36-month period to any one Participant shall be 2,000,000 Shares.
     (ii) Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares and Other Stock-Based Awards: The maximum aggregate number of Shares of Restricted Stock and Shares with respect to which Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares and Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted in any 36-month period to any one Participant shall be 800,000 Shares.
     (iii) Performance Units: The maximum aggregate compensation that can be paid pursuant to Performance Units awarded in any one fiscal year to any one Participant
 
shall be $10,000,000 or a number of Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value not in excess of such amount.
4. .
Eligibility and Participation
     (a) . Persons eligible to participate in the Plan include all Employees, Directors and Consultants.
Eligibility
     (b) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible Employees, Directors and Consultants, those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and amount of each Award. The Committee may establish additional terms, conditions, rules or procedures to accommodate the rules or laws of applicable foreign jurisdictions and to afford Participants favorable treatment under such laws; provided, however, that no Award shall be granted under any such additional terms, conditions, rules or procedures with terms or conditions which are inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.
Actual Participation
5. .
Types of Awards
     (a) . Awards under the Plan may be in the form of Options (both Nonqualified Stock Options and/or Incentive Stock Options), SARs, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units and Other Stock-Based Awards.
Type of Awards
     (b) . Each Award shall be designated in the Award Agreement.
Designation of Award
6. .
Options
     (a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
Grant of Options
     (b) . Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Exercise Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine including, but not limited to, the Option vesting schedule, repurchase provisions, rights of first refusal, forfeiture provisions, form of payment (cash, Shares, or other consideration) upon settlement of the Award, and payment contingencies. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option. Options that are intended to be Incentive Stock Options shall be subject to the limitations set forth in Section 422 of the Code.
Award Agreement
     (c) . Except for Options adjusted pursuant to Section 18 herein, and replacement Options granted in connection with a merger, acquisition, reorganization or similar transaction, the Exercise Price for each grant of an Option shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Option is granted. However, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Participant who, at the time the Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary, the Exercise Price for each grant of an Option shall
Exercise Price
 
not be less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Option is granted.
     (d) . The term of an Option granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion; provided, however, that such term shall not exceed ten (10) years. However, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Participant who, at the time the Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary, the term of the Incentive Stock Option shall be five (5) years from the date of grant thereof or such shorter term as may be provided in the Award Agreement.
Term of Options
     (e) . Options granted under this Section 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as set forth in the Award Agreement and as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant; provided, however, that except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement upon a termination of employment or pursuant to Section 19 in the event of a Change in Control or Subsidiary Disposition, no Option may be exercisable prior to one (1) year from the date of grant.
Exercise of Options
     (f) . Options granted under this Section 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice to the Company, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised and specifying the method of the Exercise Price. The Exercise Price of an Option shall be payable to the Company: (i) in cash or its equivalent, (ii) by tendering (either actually or constructively by attestation) Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the Exercise Price, (iii) in any other manner then permitted by the Committee, or (iv) by a combination of any of the permitted methods of payment. The Committee may limit any method of payment, other than that specified under (i), for administrative convenience, to comply with Applicable Laws or otherwise.
Payments
     (g) . The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Section 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
Restrictions on Share Transferability
     (h) . Each Participant's Option Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's employment or, if the Participant is a Director or Consultant, service with the Company and its Subsidiaries. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all Options, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination of employment or service.
Termination of Employment or Service
7. .
Stock Appreciation Rights
     (a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to
Grant of SARs
 
time, as shall be determined by the Committee. The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these forms of SAR.
     (b) . Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the grant price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
Award Agreement
     (c) . The grant price of a Freestanding SAR shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of the SAR, and the grant price of a Tandem SAR shall equal the Exercise Price of the related Option; provided, however, that these limitations shall not apply to Awards that are adjusted pursuant to Section 18 herein.
Grant Price
     (d) . The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion; provided, however, that such term shall not exceed ten (10) years.
Term of SARs
     (e) . A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then exercisable. To the extent exercisable, Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option. The exercise of all or part of a Tandem SAR shall result in the forfeiture of the right to purchase a number of Shares under the related Option equal to the number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. Conversely, upon exercise of all or part of an Option with respect to which a Tandem SAR has been granted, an equivalent portion of the Tandem SAR shall similarly be forfeited.
Exercise of Tandem SARs
          Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO: (i) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (ii) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Exercise Price of the underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; and (iii) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the ISO exceeds the Exercise Price of the ISO.
     (f) . Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes upon them and sets forth in the Award Agreement; provided, however, that except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement upon a termination of employment or pursuant to Section 19 in the event of a Change in Control or Subsidiary Disposition, no Freestanding SARs may be exercisable prior to one (1) year from the date of grant.
Exercise of Freestanding SARs
     (g) . Upon exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
Payment of SAR Amount
 
     At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in Shares of equivalent value, or in some combination thereof.
     (h) . Each SAR Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant's employment or, if the Participant is a Director or Consultant, service with the Company and its Subsidiaries. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all SARs, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination of employment or service.
Termination of Employment or Service
8. .
Restricted Stock
     (a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Restricted Stock may be granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
Grant of Restricted Stock
     (b) . Each Restricted Stock grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
Award Agreement
     (c) . Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement upon a termination of employment or pursuant to Section 19 in the event of a Change in Control or Subsidiary Disposition, an Award of Restricted Stock shall have a minimum Period of Restriction of three (3) years, which period may, at the discretion of the Committee, lapse on a pro-rated, graded, or cliff basis (as specified in an Award Agreement); provided, however, that in the Committee's sole discretion, up to five percent (5%) of the Shares available for issuance as Full-Value Awards under the Plan may have a shorter Period of Restriction, but in no case less than one (1) year. The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock, a requirement that the issuance of Shares of Restricted Stock be delayed, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals, additional time-based restrictions, and/or restrictions under Applicable Laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed or traded, or holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the Shares by the Company upon vesting of such Restricted Stock. The Company may retain in its custody any certificate evidencing the Shares of Restricted Stock and place thereon a legend and institute stop-transfer orders on such Shares, and the Participant shall be obligated to sign any stock power requested by the Company relating to the Shares to give effect to the forfeiture provisions of the Restricted Stock.
Period of Restriction and Other Restrictions
     (d) . Subject to Applicable Laws, Restricted Stock shall become freely transferable by the Participant after the last day of the Period of Restriction applicable thereto. Once Restricted Stock is released from the restrictions, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a certificate evidencing the Shares.
Removal of Restrictions
 
     (e) . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth in a Participant's Award Agreement, to the extent permitted or required by Applicable Laws, as determined by the Committee, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction.
Voting Rights
     (f) . Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, during the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock shall receive all regular cash Dividends paid with respect to all Shares while they are so held, and, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, all other distributions paid with respect to such Restricted Stock shall be credited to Participants subject to the same restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid and paid at such time following full vesting as are paid the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which such distributions were made.
Dividends and Other Distributions
     (g) . Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain unvested Restricted Stock following termination of the Participant's employment or, if the Participant is a Director or Consultant, service with the Company and its Subsidiaries. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all Awards of Restricted Stock, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination of employment or service.
Termination of Employment or Service
9.
Restricted Stock Units.
     (a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Restricted Stock Units may be granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
Grant of Restricted Stock Units
     (b) . Each grant of Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the applicable Period of Restriction, the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
Award Agreement
     (c) . The initial value of a Restricted Stock Unit shall equal the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant; provided, however, that this restriction shall not apply to Awards that are adjusted pursuant to Section 18 herein.
Value of Restricted Stock Units
     (d) . Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement upon a termination of employment or pursuant to Section 19 in the event of a Change in Control or Subsidiary Disposition, an Award of Restricted Stock Units shall have a minimum Period of Restriction of three (3) years, which period may, at the discretion of the Committee, lapse on a pro-rated, graded, or cliff basis; provided, however, that in the Committee's sole discretion, up to five percent (5%) of the Shares available for issuance as Full-Value Awards under the Plan may have a shorter Period of Restriction, but in no case less than one (1) year.
Period of Restriction
     (e) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 19 herein or a Participant's Award Agreement, payment of Restricted Stock Units shall be made at a specified settlement date that shall not be earlier than the last day of the Period of Restriction. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Restricted Stock Units by delivery of
Form and Timing of Payment
 
Shares or by payment in cash of an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of such Shares (or a combination thereof). The Committee may provide that settlement of Restricted Stock Units shall be deferred, on a mandatory basis or at the election of the Participant.
     (f) . A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder.
Voting Rights
     (g) . Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive a payout respecting an Award of Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant's employment or, if the Participant is a Director or Consultant, service with the Company and its Subsidiaries. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all Restricted Stock Units, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination of employment or service.
Termination of Employment or Service
10. .
Performance Shares
     (a) . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Performance Shares may be granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
Grant of Performance Shares
     (b) . Each grant of Performance Shares shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the applicable Performance Period(s) and Performance Measure(s), the number of Performance Shares granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine; provided, however, that except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement upon a termination of employment or pursuant to Section 19 in the event of a Change in Control or Subsidiary Disposition, in no case shall a Performance Period be for a period of less than one (1) year
Award Agreement
     (c) . The initial value of a Performance Share shall equal the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant; provided, however, that this restriction shall not apply to Awards that are adjusted pursuant to Section 18 herein.
Value of Performance Shares
     (d) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 19 herein or a Participant's Award Agreement, payment of Performance Shares shall be made at a specified settlement date that shall not be earlier than the last day of the Performance Period. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Shares by delivery of Shares or by payment in cash of an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of such Shares (or a combination thereof). The Committee may provide that settlement of Performance Shares shall be deferred, on a mandatory basis or at the election of the Participant.
Form and Timing of Payment
     (e) . A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Performance Shares granted hereunder.
Voting Rights
     (f) . Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive a payout respecting an Award of Performance Shares following termination of the Participant's employment or, if the Participant is a Consultant, service with the Company and its Subsidiaries. Such provisions shall
Termination of Employment or Service
 
be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all Participants, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination of employment or service
11.
Performance Units.
     (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Performance Units may be granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
Grant of Performance Units
     (b) . Each grant of Performance Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the number of Performance Units granted, the Performance Period(s) and Performance Measure(s), the performance goals and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine; provided, however, that except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement upon a termination of employment or pursuant to Section 19 in the event of a Change in Control or Subsidiary Disposition, in no case shall a Performance Period be for a period of less than one (1) year
Award Agreement
     (c) . The Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion that, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number and/or value of Performance Units that will be paid out to the Participants.
Value of Performance Units
     (d) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 19 herein or a Participant's Award Agreement, payment of earned Performance Units shall be made following the close of the applicable Performance Period. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units in cash or in Shares that have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the value of the earned Performance Units (or a combination thereof). The Committee may provide that settlement of Performance Units shall be deferred, on a mandatory basis or at the election of the Participant.
Form and Timing of Payment
     (e) . A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Performance Units granted hereunder.
Voting Rights
     (f) . Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive a payout respecting an Award of Performance Units following termination of the Participant's employment or, if the Participant is a Consultant, service with the Company and its Subsidiaries. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all Performance Units and may reflect distinctions based on reasons for termination of employment or service.
Termination of Employment or Service
12. .
Other Stock-Based Awards
     (a) . The Committee shall have the right to grant other Awards that may include, without limitation, the grant of Shares based on attainment of performance goals established by the Committee, the payment of Shares as a bonus or in lieu of cash based on attainment of performance goals established by the Committee, and the payment of Shares in lieu of cash under other Company incentive or bonus programs.
Grant
 
     (b) . Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement upon a termination of employment or pursuant to Section 19 in the event of a Change in Control or Subsidiary Disposition, Awards granted pursuant to this Section 12 shall have a minimum Period of Restriction of three (3) years, which period may, at the discretion of the Committee, lapse on a pro-rated, graded, or cliff basis (as specified in an Award Agreement); provided, however, that in the Committee's sole discretion, up to five percent (5%) of the Shares available for issuance as Full-Value Awards under the Plan may have a shorter Period of Restriction, but in no case less than one (1) year. Notwithstanding the above, an Award of payment Shares in lieu of cash under other Company incentive or bonus programs shall not be subject to the minimum Period of Restriction limitations described above.
Period of Restriction
     (c) . Subject to Section 12(b) hereof, payment under or settlement of any such Awards shall be made in such manner and at such times as the Committee may determine. The Committee may provide that settlement of Other Stock-Based Awards shall be deferred, on a mandatory basis or at the election of the Participant.
Payment of Other Stock-Based Awards
     (d) . The Committee shall determine the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Other Stock-Based Awards following termination of the Participant's employment or, if the Participant is a Director or Consultant, service with the Company and its Subsidiaries. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, such provisions may be included in an agreement entered into with each Participant, but need not be uniform among all Other Stock-Based Awards, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination of employment or service.
Termination of Employment or Service
13. . At the discretion of the Committee, Awards granted pursuant to the Plan may provide Participants with the right to receive Dividend Equivalents, which may be paid currently or credited to an account for the Participants, and may be settled in cash and/or Shares, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, subject in each case to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall establish.
Dividend Equivalents
14. .
Performance-Based Exception
     (a) The Committee may specify that the attainment of one or more of the Performance Measures set forth in this Section 14 shall determine the degree of granting, vesting and/or payout with respect to Awards that the Committee intends will qualify for the Performance-Based Exception. The performance goals to be used for such Awards shall be chosen from among the following performance measures (the "Performance Measures"): total shareholder return, stock price, net customer sales, volume, gross profit, gross margin, operating profit, operating margin, management profit, earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, earnings from continuing operations, earnings per share from continuing operations, net operating profit after tax, net earnings, net earnings per share, return on assets, return on investment, return on equity, return on invested capital, cost of capital, average capital employed, cash value added, economic value added, cash flow, cash flow from operations, working capital, working capital as a percentage of net customer sales, asset growth, asset turnover, market share, customer satisfaction, and employee satisfaction. The targeted level or levels of performance with respect to such Performance Measures may be established at such levels and on such terms as the Committee may determine, in its discretion, on a corporate-wide basis or with respect to
 
one or more business units, divisions, subsidiaries, business segments or functions, and in either absolute terms or relative to the performance of one or more comparable companies or an index covering multiple companies. Awards that are not intended to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception may be based on these or such other performance measures as the Committee may determine.
     (b) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, measurement of performance goals with respect to the Performance Measures above shall exclude the impact of charges for restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, and other unusual or non-recurring items, as well as the cumulative effects of tax or accounting changes, each as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or identified in the Company's financial statements, notes to the financial statements, management's discussion and analysis or other filings with the SEC.
     (c) Performance goals may differ for Awards granted to any one Participant or to different Participants.
     (d) Achievement of performance goals in respect of Awards intended to qualify under the Performance-Based Exception shall be measured over a Performance Period specified in the Award Agreement, and the goals shall be established not later than 90 days after the beginning of the Performance Period or, if less than 90 days, the number of days which is equal to 25% of the relevant Performance Period applicable to the Award.
     (e) The Committee shall have the discretion to adjust the determinations of the degree of attainment of the pre-established performance goals; provided, however, that Awards that are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception may not be adjusted upward (the Committee may, in its discretion, adjust such Awards downward).
15. . Incentive Stock Options may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during a Participant's lifetime only by such Participant. Other Awards shall be transferable to the extent provided in the Award Agreement, except that no Award may be transferred for consideration.
Transferability of Awards
16. . The Company shall have the power and right, prior to the delivery of Shares pursuant to an Award, to deduct or withhold, or require a participant to remit to the Company (or a Subsidiary), an amount (in cash or Shares) sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding requirements applicable to an Award. Whenever under the Plan payments are to be made in cash, such payments shall be net of an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding requirements. Subject to such restrictions as the Committee may prescribe, a Participant may satisfy all or a portion of any tax withholding requirements by electing to have the Company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount to be withheld up to the minimum statutory tax withholding rate (or such other rate that will not result in a negative accounting impact).
Taxes
 
17. .
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
     (a) Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Award unless the exercise of such Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all Applicable Laws, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
     (b) As a condition to the exercise of an Award, the Company may require the person exercising such Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any Applicable Laws.
18. . In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, liquidation, stock dividend, split-up, spin-off, stock split, reverse stock split, share combination, share exchange, extraordinary dividend, or any change in the corporate structure affecting the Shares, such adjustment shall be made in the number and kind of Shares that may be delivered under the Plan, the individual limits set forth in Section 3(b), and, with respect to outstanding Awards, in the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Exercise Price, grant price or other price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, any performance conditions relating to Shares, the market price of Shares, or per-Share results, and other terms and conditions of outstanding Awards, as may be determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights; provided, however, that, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be rounded down to a whole number. Adjustments made by the Committee pursuant to this Section 18 shall be final, binding, and conclusive.
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization
     (a) . Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or pursuant to Section 19(b) hereof, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, unless otherwise specifically prohibited under Applicable Laws, or by the rules and regulations of any governing governmental agencies or national securities exchanges:
Change in Control
     (i) any and all outstanding Options and SARs granted hereunder shall become immediately exercisable unless such Awards are assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity; provided, however, that in the event of a Participant's termination of employment without Cause within twenty-four (24) months following consummation of a Change in Control, any replacement awards will become immediately exercisable;
     (ii) any Period of Restriction or other restriction imposed on Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, and Other Stock-Based Awards shall lapse unless such Awards are assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity; provided, however, that in the event of a Participant's termination of employment without Cause within twenty-four
 
(24) months following consummation of a Change in Control, the Period of Restriction on any replacement awards shall lapse; and
     (iii) any and all Performance Shares, Performance Units and other Awards (if performance-based) shall vest on a pro rata monthly basis, including full credit for partial months elapsed, and will be paid (A) based on the level of performance achieved as of the date of the Change in Control, if determinable, or (B) at the target level, if not determinable. The amount of the vested Award may be computed under the following formula: total Award number of Shares times (number of full months elapsed in shortest possible vesting period divided by number of full months in shortest possible vesting period) times percent performance level achieved immediately prior to the specified effective date of the Change in Control.
With respect to paragraphs (i) and (ii) of Section 19(a) above, the Award Agreement may provide that any replacement awards will become immediately exercisable or any Period of Restriction shall lapse in the event of a termination of employment by the Participant for "good reason" as such term is defined in any employment agreement or severance agreement or policy applicable to such Participant.
     (b) . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide that (i) all outstanding Options and SARs shall be terminated upon the occurrence of a Change in Control and that each Participant shall receive, with respect to each Share subject to such Options or SARs, an amount in cash equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a Share immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change in Control over the Option Exercise Price or the SAR grant price; and (ii) Options and SARs outstanding as of the date of the Change in Control may be cancelled and terminated without payment therefore if the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the date of the Change in Control is less than the Option Exercise Price or the SAR grant price.
Cash-Out and Termination of Underwater Options/SARs
     (c) . The Committee shall have the authority, exercisable either in advance of any actual or anticipated Subsidiary Disposition or at the time of an actual Subsidiary Disposition and either at the time of the grant of an Award or at any time while an Award remains outstanding, to provide for the automatic full vesting and exercisability of one or more outstanding unvested Awards under the Plan and the termination of restrictions on transfer and repurchase or forfeiture rights on such Awards, in connection with a Subsidiary Disposition, but only with respect to those Participants who are at the time engaged primarily in Continuous Service with the Subsidiary involved in such Subsidiary Disposition. The Committee also shall have the authority to condition any such Award vesting and exercisability or release from such limitations upon the subsequent termination of the affected Participant's Continuous Service with that Subsidiary within a specified period following the effective date of the Subsidiary Disposition. The Committee may provide that any Awards so vested or released from such limitations in connection with a Subsidiary Disposition, shall remain fully exercisable until the expiration or sooner termination of the Award.
Subsidiary Disposition
 
20. .
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
     (a) . The Board may at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; provided, however, that no amendment that requires stockholder approval in order for the Plan to continue to comply with the New York Stock Exchange listing standards or any rule promulgated by the SEC or any securities exchange on which Shares are listed or any other Applicable Laws shall be effective unless such amendment shall be approved by the requisite vote of stockholders of the Company entitled to vote thereon within the time period required under such applicable listing standard or rule.
Amendment, Modification and Termination
     (b) . The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 18 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in Applicable Laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan. With respect to any Awards intended to comply with the Performance-Based Exception, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, any such exception shall be specified at such times and in such manner as will not cause such Awards to fail to qualify under the Performance-Based Exception.
Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
     (c) . No termination, amendment or modification of the Plan or of any Award shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan without the written consent of the participant holding such Award, unless such termination, modification or amendment is required by Applicable Laws and except as otherwise provided herein.
Awards Previously Granted
     (d) . Except for adjustments made pursuant to Section 18, no amendment shall reduce the Exercise Price of outstanding Options or the grant price of outstanding SARs, nor may any outstanding Options or outstanding SARs be surrendered to the Company as consideration for the grant of new Options or SARs with a lower Exercise Price or grant price, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company.
No Repricing
     (e) . If it is intended that an Award comply with the requirements of the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may apply any restrictions it deems appropriate such that the Awards maintain eligibility for the Performance-Based Exception. If changes are made to Code Section 162(m) or regulations promulgated thereunder to permit greater flexibility with respect to any Award or Awards available under the Plan, the Committee may, subject to this Section 20, make any adjustments to the Plan and/or Award Agreements it deems appropriate.
Compliance with the Performance-Based Exception
 
21. .
Reservation of Shares
     (a) The Company, during the term of the Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
     (b) The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
22. .
Rights of Participants
     (a) . The Plan shall not confer upon any Participant any right with respect to continuation of employment or consulting relationship with the Company, nor shall it interfere in any way with his or her right or the Company's right to terminate his or her employment or consulting relationship at any time, with or without cause.
Continued Service
     (b) . No Employee, Director or Consultant shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under the Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive future Awards.
Participant
23. . All obligations of the Company under the Plan and with respect to Awards shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or other event, or a sale or disposition of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company and references to the "Company" herein and in any Award agreements shall be deemed to refer to such successors.
Successors
24. .
Legal Construction
     (a) . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural. Any reference in the Plan to a Section of the Plan either in the Plan or any Award agreement or to an act or code or to any section thereof or rule or regulation thereunder shall be deemed to refer to such Section of the Plan, act, code, section, rule or regulation, as may be amended from time to time, or to any successor Section of the Plan, act, code, section, rule or regulation.
Gender, Number and References
     (b) . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
     (c) . The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares or cash under the Plan shall be subject to all Applicable Laws and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
Requirements of Law
 
     (d) . To the extent not preempted by federal law, the Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.
Governing Law
     (e) . Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board nor its submission to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or a committee thereof to adopt such other incentive arrangements as it may deem desirable.
Non-Exclusive Plan
     (f) . To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Plan and any Awards granted hereunder comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and any related regulations or other guidance promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service ("Section 409A"). Any provision that would cause the Plan or any Award granted hereunder to fail to satisfy Section 409A shall have no force or effect until amended to comply with Section 409A, which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A.
Code Section 409A Compliance
 
1. . As used in the Plan, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
     "" means the legal requirements relating to the administration of stock incentive plans, if any, under applicable provisions of federal securities laws, state corporate and securities laws, the Code, and the rules of any applicable stock exchange or national market system.
Applicable Laws
     "" means, individually or collectively, Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units and Other Stock-Based Awards granted under the Plan.
Award
     "" means an agreement entered into by the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to an Award.
Award Agreement
     "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     "" means (i) the willful and continued failure of the Participant substantially to perform the Participant's duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Participant by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, a member of the Committee, or another authorized officer of the Company, which specifically identifies the manner in which the sender believes that the Participant has not substantially performed the Participant's duties; or (ii) the willful engaging by the Participant in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company.
Cause
No act or failure to act on the part of the Participant shall be considered to be "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Participant's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act or failure to act based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or a member of the Committee or another authorized officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done or omitted to be done by the Participant in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. The cessation of employment of the Participant shall not be deemed to be for Cause unless and until the Chief Executive Officer, Vice President of Human Resources and General Counsel unanimously agree that, in their good faith opinion, the Participant is guilty of the conduct described in subsections (i) or (ii) above, and so notify the Participant specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
     "" means
Change in Control
 
 
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     "" means the Committee, as specified in Section 2(a), appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
Committee
     "" means The Clorox Company and any successor thereto as provided in Section 23 herein.
Company
     "" means any consultant or advisor to the Company or a Subsidiary.
Consultant
     "" means that the provision of services to the Company or any Subsidiary in any capacity of Employee or Consultant is not interrupted or terminated. Continuous Service shall not be considered interrupted in the case of (i) any leave of absence approved by the Company or (ii) transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company, any Subsidiary, or any successor. A leave of absence approved by the Company shall include sick leave, military leave, or any other personal leave approved by an authorized representative of the Company. For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed ninety (90) days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract.
Continuous Service
     "" means any individual who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Company or a Subsidiary who is not an Employee.
Director
     "" means the dividends declared and paid on Shares subject to an Award.
Dividend
     "" means, with respect to Shares subject to an Award, a right to be paid an amount equal to the Dividends declared and paid on an equal number of outstanding Shares.
Dividend Equivalent
     "" means any employee of the Company or a Subsidiary.
Employee
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
     "" means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option.
Exercise Price
 
     "" means, as of any date, the value of a Share determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
     "" means an SAR that is granted independently of any Options, as described in Section 7 herein.
Freestanding SAR
     "" means Awards other than Options, SARs, or other Awards for which the Participant pays the grant date intrinsic value directly or by forgoing a right to receive a cash payment from the Company.
Full-Value Award
     "" or "" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
ISO
     "" means an Option that is not intended to meet the requirement of Section 422 of the Code.
Nonqualified Stock Option
     "" means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option granted under the Plan, as described in Section 6 herein.
Option
     "" means the cash received by the Company as payment of the Exercise Price upon exercise of an Option or a Prior Plan option plus the federal tax benefit that could be realized by the Company as a result of the Option of Prior Plan option exercise, which shall be determined by multiplying the amount that is deductible as a result of the Option or Prior Plan option exercise (currently equal to the amount upon which the Participant's withholding tax obligation is calculated) by the maximum federal corporate income tax rate for the year of exercise. To the extent that a Participant pays the Exercise Price and/or withholding taxes with Shares, Option Proceeds shall not be calculated with respect to the amount paid in such manner.
Option Proceeds
     "" means a Share-based or Share-related Award granted pursuant to Section 12 herein.
Other Stock-Based Award
     "" means a current or former Employee, Director or Consultant who has rights relating to an outstanding Award.
Participant
 
     "" means the performance-based exception from the tax deductibility limitations of Code Section 162(m).
Performance-Based Exception
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(a).
Performance Measures
     "" means the period during which a performance measure must be met.
Performance Period
     "" means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Section 10 herein.
Performance Share
     "" means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Section 11 herein.
Performance Unit
     "" means the period Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Other Stock-Based Awards are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture and are not transferable, as provided in Sections 8, 9 and 12 herein.
Period of Restriction
     "" means The Clorox Company 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.
Plan
     "" means The Clorox Company 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, The Clorox Company 1987 Long Term Compensation Program, The Clorox Company Independent Directors' Stock-Based Compensation Plan, and the 1993 Directors' Stock Option Plan.
Prior Plans
     "" means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Section 8 herein.
Restricted Stock
     "" means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Section 9 herein.
Restricted Stock Units
     "" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
     "" means a share of common stock of the Company, par value $1.00 per share, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 18 herein.
Share
     "" or "" means an Award granted to a Participant, either alone or in connection with a related Option, as described in Section 7 herein.
Stock Appreciation Right
SAR
     "" means any corporation in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock, or any other entity (including, but not limited to, partnerships and joint ventures) in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined equity thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining whether any individual may be a Participant for purposes of any grant of Incentive Stock Options, the term "Subsidiary" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Code Section 424(f).
Subsidiary
     "" means the disposition by the Company of its equity holdings in any Subsidiary effected by a merger or consolidation involving that Subsidiary, the sale of all or
Subsidiary Disposition
 
substantially all of the assets of that Subsidiary or the Company's sale or distribution of substantially all of the outstanding capital stock of such Subsidiary.
     "" means a SAR that is granted in connection with a related Option, as described in Section 7 herein.
Tandem SAR
     "" means voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors.
Voting Securities

 
Exhibit 10.2
1. .
Establishment, Objectives, Duration
     The Clorox Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") hereby establishes a short-term incentive compensation plan to be known as the "The Clorox Company Executive Incentive Compensation Plan" (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan").
     The purpose of the Plan is to enhance the Company's ability to attract and retain highly qualified executives and to provide such executives with additional financial incentives to promote the success of the Company and its Subsidiaries. Awards payable under the Plan are intended to constitute "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the Plan shall be construed consistently with such intention.
     The Plan is effective as of July 1, 2005, subject to the approval of the Plan by the stockholders of the Company at the 2005 Annual Meeting. The Plan will remain in effect until such time as it shall be terminated by the Board, pursuant to Section 11 herein.
2.
Definitions.
     The following terms, when capitalized, shall have the meanings set forth below:
     (a) "" means a bonus paid in cash, Shares or any combination thereof.
Award
     (b) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     (c) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     (d) "" means the Committee, as specified in Section 3(a), appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
Committee
     (e) "" means The Clorox Company.
Company
     (f) "" means the earnings before income taxes of the Company as reported in the Company's income statement for the applicable Performance Period. For purposes of the foregoing definition, Earnings Before Income Taxes shall be adjusted to exclude the impact of charges for restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, and other unusual or non-recurring items, as well as the cumulative effect of tax or accounting changes, each as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or identified in the Company's financial statements, notes to the financial statements, management's discussion and analysis or other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Earnings Before Income Taxes
     (g) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
     (h) "" means, as of any date, the value of a Share determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
          (i) Where there exists a public market for the Share, the Fair Market Value shall be (A) the closing sales price for a Share for the last market trading day prior to the time of the determination (or, if no sales were reported on that date, on the last trading date on which sales were reported) on the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ National Market or the principal securities exchange on which the Share is listed for trading, whichever is applicable, or (B) if the Share is not traded on any such exchange or national market system, the average of the closing bid and asked prices of a Share on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market, in each case, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Committee deems reliable; or
          (ii) In the absence of an established market of the type described above for the Share, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined by the Committee in good faith, and such determination shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
     (i) "" means the Company's Chief Executive Officer and each other executive officer of the Company that the Committee determines, in its discretion, is or may be a "covered employee" of the Company within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and regulations promulgated thereunder who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
Participant
     (j) "" means the fiscal year of the Company, or such shorter or longer period as determined by the Committee; provided, however, that a Performance Period shall in no event be less than six (6) months or more than five (5) years.
Performance Period
     (k) "" means The Clorox Company Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.
Plan
     (l) "" means a share of common stock of the Company, par value $1.00 per share.
Share
     (m) "" means any corporation in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock, or any other entity (including, but not limited to, partnerships and joint ventures) in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined equity thereof.
Subsidiary
3.
Administration of the Plan.
     (a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee (the "Committee") as the Board shall select consisting of two or more members of the Board each of whom is intended to be a "non-employee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 (or any successor rule) of the Exchange Act, an "outside director" under regulations promulgated under Section 162(m) of the Code, and an "independent director" under New York Stock Exchange Listing standards. The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the discretion of, the Board.
The Committee
     (b) . Subject to applicable laws and the provisions of the Plan (including any other powers given to the Committee hereunder), and except as otherwise
Authority of the Committee
 
provided by the Board, the Committee shall have full and final authority in its discretion to establish rules and take all actions, including, without limitation, interpreting the terms of the Plan and any related rules or regulations or other documents enacted hereunder and deciding all questions of fact arising in their application, determined by the Committee to be necessary in the administration of the Plan.
     (c) . All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons, including the Company, its Subsidiaries, its stockholders, the Participants and their estates and beneficiaries.
Effect of Committee's Decision
4.
Eligibility.
     Eligibility under this Plan is limited to Participants designated by the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion.
5.
Form of Payment of Awards.
     Payment of Awards under the Plan shall be made in cash, Shares or a combination thereof, as the Committee shall determine, subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 6 and 7 herein.
6.
Shares Subject to the Plan.
     Award payments that are made in the form of Shares, in whole or in part, shall be made from the aggregate number of Shares authorized to be issued under and otherwise in accordance with the terms of The Clorox Company 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (or any successor stock incentive plan approved by the stockholders of the Company).
7.
Awards.
     (a) . Within 90 days after the beginning of each Performance Period or, if less than 90 days, the number of days which is equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the relevant Performance Period applicable to an Award, the Committee shall, in writing, (i) select the Participants to whom Awards shall be granted, (ii) designate the applicable Performance Period, and (iii) specify terms and conditions for the determination and payment of the Award for each Participant for such Performance Period, including, without limitation, the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive an Award following termination of the Participant's employment. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all Awards, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination of employment.
Selection of Participants and Designation of Performance Period and Terms of Award
     (b) . The maximum Award that may be paid to any Participant other than the Company's chief executive officer under the Plan for any Performance Period shall not exceed 0.6% of Earnings Before Income Taxes. The maximum Award that may be paid to the Company's chief executive officer under the Plan for any Performance Period shall not exceed 1.0% of Earnings Before Income Taxes.
Maximum Award
 
     (c) . Subject to the limitation set forth in paragraph (b) hereof, each Participant under the Plan shall be eligible to receive an Award equal to 0.6% of Earnings Before Income Taxes for the designated Performance Period, except for the Company's chief executive officer who shall be eligible to receive an Award equal to 1.0% of Earnings Before Income Taxes for the designated Performance Period; provided, however, that the Committee may condition payment of an Award upon the satisfaction of such objective or subjective standards as the Committee shall determine to be appropriate, in its sole and absolute discretion, and shall retain the discretion to reduce the amount of any Award that would otherwise be payable to a Participant, including a reduction in such amount to zero.
Actual Award
8.
Committee Certification and Payment of Awards.
     As soon as reasonably practicable following the end of each Performance Period, the Committee shall determine the amount of the Award to be paid to each Participant for such Performance Period and shall certify such determination in writing. Awards shall be paid to the Participants following such certification by the Committee no later than ninety (90) days following the close of the Performance Period with respect to which the Awards are made, unless all or a portion of a Participant's Award is deferred pursuant to the Participant's timely and validly made election made in accordance with such terms as the Company, the Board or a committee thereof may determine.
9. .
Termination of Employment
     Except as may be specifically provided in an Award pursuant to Section 7(a), a Participant shall have no right to an Award under the Plan for any Performance Period in which the Participant is not actively employed by the Company or a Subsidiary on the last day of the Performance Period to which such Award relates. In establishing Awards under Section 7(a), the Committee may also provide that in the event a Participant is not employed by the Company or a Subsidiary on the date on which the Award is paid, the Participant may forfeit his or her right to the Award paid under the Plan.
10.
Taxes.
     The Company shall have the power and right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company (or a Subsidiary), an amount (in cash or Shares) sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding requirements applicable to an Award. Whenever under the Plan payments are to be made in cash, such payments shall be net of an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding requirements. Subject to such restrictions as the Committee may prescribe, a Participant may satisfy all or a portion of any tax withholding requirements relating to Awards payable in Shares by electing to have the Company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount to be withheld.
11.
Amendment or Termination of the Plan.
     The Board may at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; provided, however, that no amendment that requires stockholder approval in order to maintain the qualification of Awards as performance-based compensation
 
pursuant to Code Section 162(m) and regulations promulgated thereunder shall be made without such stockholder approval. If changes are made to Code Section 162(m) or regulations promulgated thereunder to permit greater flexibility with respect to any Award or Awards available under the Plan, the Committee may, subject to this Section 11, make any adjustments to the Plan and/or Awards it deems appropriate.
12.
No Rights to Employment.
     The Plan shall not confer upon any Participant any right with respect to continuation of employment with the Company, nor shall it interfere in any way with his or her right or the Company's right to terminate his or her employment at any time, with or without cause.
13.
No Assignment.
     Except as otherwise required by applicable law, any interest, benefit, payment, claim or right of any Participant under the Plan shall not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, encumbered or hypothecated by any Participant and shall not be subject in any manner to any claims of any creditor of any Participant or beneficiary, and any attempt to take any such action shall be null and void. During the lifetime of any Participant, payment of an Award shall only be made to such Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may establish such procedures as it deems necessary for a Participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts would be payable in the event of any Participant's death.
14.
Legal Construction.
     (a) . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural. Any reference in the Plan to a Section of the Plan either in the Plan or to an act or code or to any section thereof or rule or regulation thereunder shall be deemed to refer to such Section of the Plan, act, code, section, rule or regulation, as may be amended from time to time, or to any successor Section of the Plan, act, code, section, rule or regulation.
Gender, Number and References
     (b) . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
     (c) . The granting of Awards and the issuance of cash or Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
Requirements of Law
     (d) . Awards under the Plan will be paid from the general assets of the Company, and the rights of Participants under the Plan will be only those of general unsecured creditors of the Company.
Unfunded Plan
 
     (e) . To the extent not preempted by federal law, the Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.
Governing Law
     (f) . Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board nor its submission to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or a committee thereof to adopt such other incentive arrangements as it may deem desirable.
Non-Exclusive Plan
     (g) . To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Plan and any Awards granted hereunder comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and any related regulations or other guidance promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service ("Section 409A"). Any provision that would cause the Plan or any Award granted hereunder to fail to satisfy Section 409A shall have no force or effect until amended to comply with Section 409A, which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A.
Code Section 409A Compliance


