FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20060522172312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.)
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On May 16, 2006, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of The Clorox Company (the Company) approved a retention and recognition plan that provides enhanced severance and short-term incentive bonus opportunities to members of the Clorox Executive Committee (the Executive Committee). The plan was adopted in recognition of the additional responsibilities taken on by members of the Executive Committee following the medical leave and subsequent retirement as chairman and chief executive officer of Gerald E. Johnston, and to encourage the continued service of Executive Committee members during the search for Mr. Johnston's successor and transition to the new chief executive officer.
     The retention and recognition plan provides for enhanced severance to Executive Committee members through amendments to their existing employment agreements. Under the current employment agreements, if an executive is terminated by the Company without cause, he or she is entitled to receive a lump sum amount equal to his or her highest monthly base salary rate in effect during the twelve month period preceding the termination times the number of months in the remaining term of his or her employment agreement plus 75% of his or her average annual bonus (as defined in the employment agreement), multiplied by the number of months in the remaining term of his or her employment agreement and divided by 12. The employment agreements have a two-year term that renews daily unless the Company gives notice of non-renewal. Pursuant to the retention and recognition plan, the employment agreements will be amended to provide a lump sum payment in an amount equal to his or her highest monthly base salary rate in effect during the twelve month period preceding a termination without cause by the Company during the period commencing May 16, 2006 and ending eighteen months after the date a new CEO commences employment with the Company times the number of months in the remaining term of his or her employment agreement plus 12, plus 75% of his or her average annual bonus, multiplied by the number of months in the remaining term of his or her employment agreement plus 12 and then divided by 12.
     The retention and recognition plan also provides Executive Committee members a one-time increased incentive target bonus opportunity of 30% of base salary under the Company's Executive Incentive Plan and Annual Incentive Plan for fiscal year 2007 (subject to the overall limits provided in the plans). Actual bonus targets (which will reflect this increase) will be determined after the beginning of the Company's 2007 fiscal year, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plans and applicable tax law.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
                       THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, is entered into on , 2006, between THE CLOROX COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and (the "Executive"), and amends the Employment Agreement effective as of between the Company and the Executive (the "Employment Agreement").
                         
                         
               
          The Employment Agreement is hereby modified and amended as follows:
                    "(i)          .
Salary Component
                    Payment, promptly after termination, of a lump sum amount equal to salary, at a monthly rate equal to the highest monthly base salary rate in effect during the twelve (12) month period preceding the termination of employment times the number of months in the remaining term of this Agreement as determined in Sections 1(a)(i) or (iii) had the termination not occurred, or until the Executive's death if that occurs first (the "Severance Payment Period"); , however, that in the event the Company appoints a Chief Executive Officer (other than an Interim Chief Executive Officer) to succeed Gerald E. Johnston during the term of this Agreement and the Executive's termination of employment occurs during the period commencing on May 16, 2006 and ending eighteen (18) months after the date on which the new Chief Executive Officer commences employment with the Company (the "CEO Window Period"), for purposes of the above formula, "Severance Payment Period" shall be replaced with the number of months in the remaining term of this Agreement as determined in Sections 1(a)(i) or (iii) had the termination not occurred plus twelve (12) months (the "Enhanced Severance Multiple")."
provided
               "(B) In addition, payment, promptly after termination, of a lump sum amount equal to 75% of the Executive's Average Annual Bonus times the number of months remaining in the Severance Payment Period divided by twelve (12); , however, that should the Executive's termination of employment occur during the CEO Window Period, this payment shall equal a lump sum amount equal to 75% of the Executive's Average Annual Bonus times the Enhanced Severance Multiple divided by twelve (12)."
provided
          Except as expressly modified herein, the Employment Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
 
This Amendment No. 2 is executed as of the date first above written.
THE CLOROX COMPANY The Company
 


