FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20071031073044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.)
 
 
 
 
 
On October 31, 2007, The Clorox Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007. The full text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference is supplemental financial information regarding the Company's financial results for its fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007.
On October 31, 2007, the Company announced that it will acquire Burt's Bees, a leader in the natural personal care category. The full text of the press release related to the acquisition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference. Supplemental information regarding the acquisition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Clorox Reports Strong Operating Results in Q1; Updates Fiscal 2008 EPS Outlook
OAKLAND, Calif., Oct. 31, 2007  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) today announced that top-line growth and cost savings contributed to strong operating results for the company's fiscal first quarter, which ended Sept. 30, 2007.
"I'm delighted with our first-quarter results," said Chairman and CEO Don Knauss. "We delivered strong sales and volume growth in our North America and International operating segments. In addition, recent price increases and aggressive cost savings are helping us mitigate the difficult commodity cost environment. And the plans we've put in place to address competitive activity are paying off."
First-quarter highlights
Clorox reported first-quarter net earnings of $111 million, or 76 cents diluted earnings per share (EPS), based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 146 million. This compares with $112 million in the year-ago quarter, or 73 cents diluted EPS, based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 154 million. Contributing to earnings for the current quarter were strong volume and sales growth in higher margin businesses such as food products and Brita water-filtration products. Current quarter earnings also included $27 million in previously announced pretax charges, or 12 cents diluted EPS, including those related to the consolidation of the company's manufacturing networks and other charges the company decided to take in light of its Centennial Strategy. Of these pretax charges, $25 million were reported in the "restructuring and asset impairment costs" line of the Statements of Earnings and $2 million were reported in "cost of products sold."
First-quarter sales grew 7 percent to $1.24 billion, compared with $1.16 billion in the year-ago quarter. Sales in the current quarter included 2 percentage points of growth from the recently acquired bleach businesses and 1 percentage point of growth from favorable foreign exchange rates. Volume increased 6 percent compared to the year-ago quarter, including 1 percentage point of growth from the recently acquired bleach businesses. Volume growth was primarily driven by strong shipments of home-care products, including Clorox disinfecting wipes and other Clorox branded cleaners; Hidden Valley bottled salad dressing; Fresh Step scoopable cat litter; Brita water-filtration products; bleach in Canada; and laundry and cleaning products in Latin America.
Gross margin in the first quarter decreased 30 basis points to 42.6 percent from 42.9 percent in the year-ago quarter. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of higher expenses for manufacturing and logistics, which includes the cost of diesel fuel, and unfavorable raw-material costs, primarily for resin and agricultural commodities. These factors were substantially offset by the benefit of strong cost savings and price increases.
Net cash provided by operations was $163 million, compared to $133 million in the year-ago quarter. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to higher earnings, excluding $25 million of noncash charges.
During the quarter, Clorox repurchased 2 million shares of the company's common stock at a cost of about $118 million under its ongoing program to offset stock option dilution. In addition, as previously announced, the company executed an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreement on Aug. 10. Under the ASR agreement, Clorox repurchased $750 million of its shares of common stock at an initial repurchase price of $59.59 per share, subject to adjustment. Final settlement of the ASR program is scheduled for no later than Jan. 24, 2008. The final number of shares the company is repurchasing under the terms of the agreement and the timing of the final settlement will depend on prevailing market conditions, the final discounted volume weighted average share price over the term of the ASR program and other customary adjustments.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, Clorox realigned its operating segments due to changes in its management reporting structure. The North America segment includes all products marketed in the United States and Canada. The International segment includes operations outside of the U.S. and Canada. Historical segment financial information in this news release has been revised to reflect these new operating segments. Following is a summary of key first-quarter results by business segment. All comparisons are with the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, unless otherwise stated.
North America
The segment reported 5 percent sales growth, 5 percent volume growth and flat pretax earnings, which includes $23 million in the aforementioned pretax charges. Sales and volume growth were driven by strong shipments of home-care products including Clorox disinfecting wipes behind successful promotional activities and a low-streak product improvement, as well as other Clorox branded cleaners including Clorox disinfecting cleaner, Clorox toilet-bowl cleaner and Clorox Clean-Up spray cleaner. Also contributing to the segment's volume growth were higher shipments of Hidden Valley bottled salad dressing due to increased merchandising; all-time record shipments of Fresh Step scoopable cat litter; higher shipments of Brita water-filtration products due to category growth and merchandising activities; and shipments in Canada from the recently acquired bleach business. Pretax earnings reflected the benefit of higher sales, strong cost savings and price increases. These factors were offset primarily by the impact of the aforementioned charges, unfavorable commodity costs, higher trade-promotion spending and increased manufacturing costs.
International
The segment reported 18 percent sales growth, 11 percent volume growth and a 9 percent increase in pretax earnings, which includes $2 million in the aforementioned pretax charges. Sales results included 8 percentage points of growth from the newly acquired bleach businesses and 4 percentage points from favorable foreign exchange rates. Volume growth was driven by increased shipments of laundry and cleaning products in Latin America due to category growth and the recently acquired bleach businesses. Sales growth outpaced volume growth primarily due to the benefit of favorable foreign exchange rates and price increases. Pretax earnings reflected the benefit of higher sales, partially offset by the impact of higher manufacturing costs, trade-promotion spending and commodity costs.
Updated fiscal year 2008 financial outlook
For fiscal year 2008, Clorox continues to anticipate sales growth from existing brands in the range of 3-5 percent. Including the anticipated benefit of the recently acquired bleach businesses, sales growth is now anticipated to be in the range of 4-5 percent.
The company now anticipates that gross margin in fiscal year 2008 will be lower compared with fiscal year 2007. This outlook reflects higher commodity costs, particularly in the second quarter, due to higher-than-anticipated resin costs and continued pressure on agricultural commodities such as corn starch that goes into charcoal and soybean oil, which is used in Hidden Valley salad dressing. To partially offset the impact of agricultural commodity cost increases, the company announced plans to increase prices by 6 percent on Kingsford charcoal products, effective January 2008. In addition, as previously communicated, the company increased prices on Hidden Valley salad dressing by 6 percent, effective October 2007.
As announced previously, the fiscal year 2008 outlook includes anticipated charges related to the consolidation of Clorox's manufacturing networks and other charges the company decided to take in light of its Centennial Strategy. For the fiscal year, these pretax charges are still anticipated to be in the range of $49 million to $58 million, of which $35 million to $39 million are noncash. This range includes the charges of $27 million reported in the first quarter.
The company's fiscal year 2008 outlook for diluted EPS is now in the range of $3.33 to $3.50. This change primarily reflects the benefits of the aforementioned ASR agreement. For the fiscal year, the company now anticipates weighted average diluted shares outstanding of about 142 million, subject to adjustment once the ASR is finalized.
Clorox's fiscal year 2008 outlook excludes the impact of the Burt's Bees acquisition, which the company also announced today. For more information about the acquisition, see today's related press release, which is posted at .
www.TheCloroxCompany.com
For more information
Visit the Investors: Financial Results section of the company's Web site at for the following:
www.TheCloroxCompany.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Percentage and basis-point changes noted in this news release are calculated based on rounded numbers.
Today's webcast
Today at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time (9:30 a.m. Eastern time), Clorox will host a live audio webcast of a discussion with the investment community regarding the company's first-quarter results. The webcast can be accessed at . Following a live discussion, a replay of the webcast will be archived for one week on the company's Web site.
http://investors.thecloroxcompany.com
The Clorox Company
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with fiscal year 2007 revenues of $4.8 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers' most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Armor All and STP auto-care products, Fresh Step and Scoop Away cat litter, Kingsford charcoal, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration systems, and Glad bags, wraps and containers. With 7,800 employees worldwide, the company manufactures products in more than two dozen countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $69.7 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges. In fiscal 2007 alone, the foundation awarded $3.4 million in cash grants, and Clorox made product donations valued at $5.9 million. For more information about Clorox, visit www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
Forward-looking statements
This press release contains "forward looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and such forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements about future volume, sales, costs, cost savings, earnings, cash outflows, plans, objectives, expectations, growth, or profitability, are forward looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "targets," "goals," "projects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," and variations on such words, and similar expressions, are intended to identify such forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are only predictions, subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed above. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to differ materially from management's expectations are described in the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007, as updated from time to time in the company's SEC filings. These factors include, but are not limited to, the success of the company's previously announced Centennial Strategy; the need for any additional restructuring or asset-impairment charges; the final purchase price and number of shares repurchased under the company's accelerated share repurchase agreement; general economic and marketplace conditions and events; competitors' actions; the company's costs, including changes in exposure to commodity costs such as resin, diesel, chlor-alkali and agricultural commodities; increases in energy costs; consumer and customer reaction to price increases; customer-specific ordering patterns and trends; the company's actual cost performance; changes in the company's tax rate; any future supply constraints that may affect key commodities; risks inherent in sole-supplier relationships; risks related to customer concentration; risks arising out of natural disasters; risks related to the handling and/or transportation of hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine; risks inherent in litigation; risks relating to international operations, including the risk associated with foreign currencies; risks inherent in maintaining an effective system of internal controls, including the potential impact of acquisitions or the use of third-party service providers; the ability to manage and realize the benefit of joint ventures and other cooperative relationships, including the company's joint venture regarding the company's Glad plastic bags, wraps and containers business, and the agreement relating to the provision of information technology and related services by a third party; the success of new products; risks relating to acquisitions, mergers and divestitures; risks relating to changes in the company's capital structure; and the ability of the company to successfully manage tax, regulatory, product liability, intellectual property, environmental and
 
other legal matters, including the risk resulting from joint and several liability for environmental contingencies. In addition, the company's future performance is subject to risks related to its November 2004 share exchange transaction with Henkel KGaA, the tax indemnification obligations and the actual level of debt costs. Declines in cash flow, whether resulting from tax payments, debt payments, share repurchases, interest cost increases greater than management expects, or increases in debt or changes in credit ratings, or otherwise, could adversely affect the company's earnings.
The company's forward looking statements in this report are based on management's current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws.
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Unaudited)
Dollars in millions, except per share amounts
 
 
Segment Information (Unaudited)
Dollars in millions
First Quarter and Year to Date
 
 
 
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, Clorox entered into an Accelerated Share Repurchase program through which it repurchased $750 of common stock. As a result, the repurchase contributed to the treasury shares increase by $750.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Supplemental Information 
Volume Growth
 
 
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (Unaudited)
(1)
Reconciliation schedule of earnings before income taxes to earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
Dollars in millions and percentages based on rounded numbers
 
Management believes the presentation of EBIT and EBIT margin provides additional useful information to investors about current trends in the business.
 
 
Working Capital Update
 
 
 
 
Capital expenditures were $26 million
Depreciation and amortization was $48 million
Cash provided by operations
Net cash provided by operations was $163 million, compared with $133 million provided by operations in the year-ago quarter. The year-over-year increase was mainly due to higher earnings, excluding non-cash restructuring charges.
 
Supplemental Information 
Gross Margin Drivers
The table below provides details on the drivers of gross margin change versus the prior year.
 
 
 
U.S. Price Increases From CY2003 - CY2005
 
U.S. Price Increases From CY2006 - CY2008
 
Notes:
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
Clorox to Acquire Burt's Bees; Expands Into Fast-Growing Natural Personal Care
OAKLAND, Calif., Oct. 31, 2007  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX), as part of its strategy to grow in and beyond its core in fast-growing, higher-margin consumer-product categories, today announced it will acquire Burt's Bees, a leader in the natural personal care category.
The highly fragmented U.S. natural personal care market represents about $6.4 billion in sales and is currently growing at about 9 percent annually. Founded in 1984, the Burt's Bees brand today is regarded among many consumers who purchase natural personal care products as the "most natural" personal care brand and as the leading natural brand in the U.S. The acquisition of Burt's Bees is strongly aligned with Clorox's Centennial Strategy to pursue growth in areas aligned with consumer "megatrends" in health and wellness, sustainability, convenience and a more multicultural marketplace.
"This acquisition allows us to enter a growing market that's consistent with consumer megatrends," said Clorox Chairman and CEO Donald R. Knauss. "With this transaction, we're entering into a new strategic phase for our company, enabling us to expand further into the natural/sustainable business platform. The Burt's Bees brand is well-anchored in sustainability and health and wellness, and we believe it will benefit from natural and "green" tailwinds. It's in an economically attractive category with a margin structure that will be highly accretive to Clorox. Combined with our new Green Works line of natural cleaning products, and Brita water-filtration products, we can leverage Burt's Bees' extensive capabilities and credibility to build a robust, higher-growth platform for Clorox."
Beth Springer, Clorox's executive vice president  Strategy & Growth, who will oversee the business, said, "Burt's Bees is a compelling strategic fit for us, and we believe we can expand on its strong trends over time to build even greater value. Burt's Bees has a highly effective strategy and plan, strong trade practices and organizational capabilities, and a robust culture and that we want to leverage and protect. We strongly believe Clorox's deep capabilities to drive demand creation through consumer communication and value-creating customer capabilities, coupled with Burt's Bees' strong heritage of innovation to delight consumers, create a right to win. We're delighted Burt's Bees president and CEO, John Replogle, will continue to lead the company, which will continue to be based in North Carolina."
esprit de corps
"I'm delighted we're entering into this partnership with Clorox and that I will be part of this exciting next step for Burt's Bees," said John Replogle. "The Clorox Company and Burt's Bees have complementary values, visions and strengths. Together, I believe Clorox and Burt's Bees can help this business realize its full potential."
"Burt's Bees' mission  is a terrific complement to Clorox's mission ,'" Springer said. "Burt's Bees' values align strongly with Clorox's and provide a solid foundation for working together and creating synergies between our management teams."
we make people's lives better every day  naturally'
we make everyday life better, every day
Terms of Deal and Financial Impact
Under the terms of the agreement, Clorox will acquire 100 percent of Burt's Bees from its stockholders in a transaction that is structured as a merger. The company is acquiring Burt's Bees for $925 million net of an additional $25 million payment for anticipated tax benefits. Clorox will fund the all-cash transaction through a combination of cash and short-term borrowings. The transaction, which is expected to close by the end of this calendar year, is subject to regulatory approval.
Commenting on the transaction, Clorox senior vice president and CFO Dan Heinrich said, "Burt's Bees is poised to capitalize on expanded distribution within the U.S. and other countries in which the Burt's Bees brand is currently marketed. The business is enjoying strong distribution trends. We believe we can add value and expand these trends over time through our strong customer capabilities, while maintaining Burt's Bees' higher margins.
We see potential for expanding the brand into adjacencies, and we believe international expansion may offer significant upside potential beyond our valuation."
Based on its current growth trajectory and estimated 2007 net customer sales of about $170 million, Burt's Bees is anticipated to add nearly 2 points of top-line growth to Clorox in fiscal years 2008 and 2009.
Including estimates of purchase-accounting adjustments and one-time transaction and integration costs related to the transaction, the company anticipates that the transaction will dilute its fiscal year 2008 earnings by about 10-15 cents per diluted share and that it will be slightly accretive in fiscal year 2009. Excluding such purchase-accounting adjustments, one-time transaction and integration costs as well as non-cash expenses related to the transaction, the earnings per share impact is anticipated to be neutral in fiscal year 2008 and solidly accretive in fiscal year 2009.
Lehman Brothers acted as sole financial advisor to The Clorox Company. Goldman Sachs was financial advisor to Burt's Bees.
For More Information
Visit the Investors: News and Events section of the company's Web site at www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
Today's Webcast and First-Quarter Earnings Press Release
Today at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time (9:30 a.m. Eastern time), Clorox will host a live audio webcast of a discussion with the investment community regarding the company's first-quarter results and the acquisition. The webcast can be accessed at . Following the live discussion, a replay of the webcast will be archived for one week on the company's Web site. Please also see the company's press release issued today, which discusses its first-quarter results for fiscal year 2008 and its updated fiscal-year outlook.
http://investors.thecloroxcompany.com
About Burt's Bees
Burt's Bees is a leading manufacturer of earth-friendly natural personal care products. The company manufactures more than 150 products in categories such as lip care, face care, body care, hair care, men's grooming, baby care and outdoor remedies. Burt's Bees products are carried in nearly 30,000 retail outlets, including major grocery and drug store chains in the U.S., United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
About The Clorox Company
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with fiscal year 2007 revenues of $4.8 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers' most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Armor All and STP auto-care products, Fresh Step and Scoop Away cat litter, Kingsford charcoal, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration systems, and Glad bags, wraps and containers. With 7,800 employees worldwide, the company manufactures products in more than two dozen countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $69.7 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges. In fiscal 2007 alone, the foundation awarded $3.4 million in cash grants, and Clorox made product donations valued at $5.9 million. For more information about Clorox, visit www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
Forward-looking statements
This press release contains "forward looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and such forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements about future volume, sales, costs, cost savings, earnings, cash outflows, plans, objectives, expectations, growth, or profitability, are forward looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "targets," "goals," "projects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," and variations on such words, and similar expressions, are intended to identify such forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are only predictions, subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed above. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to differ materially from management's expectations are described in the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007, as updated from time to time in the company's SEC filings. These factors include, but are not limited to, the completion of the acquisition of Burt's Bees; the continuation of Burt's Bees growth trajectory and other valuation assumptions,
 
including the ability to increase distribution; estimates of the purchase accounting adjustments to account for the acquisition of Burt's Bees and estimates of other one-time transaction and integration costs as well as non-cash expenses related to the transaction; the company's success in retaining key employees, suppliers and customers; the company's ability to achieve the projected strategic and financial benefits from the acquisition, including its ability to achieve synergies in leveraging its supply chain, marketing and other capabilities; the success of the company's previously announced Centennial Strategy; the need for any additional restructuring or asset-impairment charges; the final purchase price and number of shares repurchased under the company's accelerated share repurchase agreement; general economic and marketplace conditions and events; competitors' actions; the company's costs, including changes in exposure to commodity costs such as resin, diesel, chlor-alkali and agricultural commodities; increases in energy costs; consumer and customer reaction to price increases; customer-specific ordering patterns and trends; the company's actual cost performance; changes in the company's tax rate; any future supply constraints that may affect key commodities; risks inherent in sole-supplier relationships; risks related to customer concentration; risks arising out of natural disasters; risks related to the handling and/or transportation of hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine; risks inherent in litigation; risks relating to international operations, including the risk associated with foreign currencies; risks inherent in maintaining an effective system of internal controls, including the potential impact of acquisitions or the use of third-party service providers; the ability to manage and realize the benefit of joint ventures and other cooperative relationships, including the company's joint venture regarding the company's Glad plastic bags, wraps and containers business, and the agreement relating to the provision of information technology and related services by a third party; the success of new products; risks relating to potential divestitures; risks relating to changes in the company's capital structure; and the ability of the company to successfully manage tax, regulatory, product liability, intellectual property, environmental and other legal matters, including the risk resulting from joint and several liability for environmental contingencies. In addition, the company's future performance is subject to risks related to its November 2004 share exchange transaction with Henkel KGaA, the tax indemnification obligations and the actual level of debt costs. Declines in cash flow, whether resulting from tax payments, debt payments, share repurchases, interest cost increases greater than management expects, or increases in debt or changes in credit ratings, or otherwise, could adversely affect the company's earnings.
The company's forward looking statements in this press release are based on management's current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws.
 
 



