FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20091102084537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.)
[ ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
    
On November 2, 2009, The Clorox Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its first quarter ended September 30, 2009. The full text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
    
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference is supplemental financial information.
    
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
    
    
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Clorox Delivers 23 Percent Earnings Growth in Q1, Driven by Robust Gross Margin Expansion
OAKLAND, Calif., Nov. 2, 2009  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) today reported strong earnings growth, driven by robust gross margin expansion and modest volume growth, for its first quarter, which ended Sept. 30.
"We had a great first quarter, especially given the continued challenging economic environment and the impact of weaker foreign currencies," said Chairman and CEO Don Knauss. "Most of our businesses performed well, and we exceeded our earnings expectations due to strong sales of disinfecting products related to the H1N1 flu pandemic. We also delivered our third consecutive quarter of significant gross margin improvement."
Fiscal first-quarter results
Following is a summary of key first-quarter results. All comparisons are with the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, unless otherwise stated.
$1.11 diluted earnings per share (23% net earnings growth) 
1% volume growth 
1% sales decline
Clorox reported first-quarter net earnings of $157 million, or $1.11 diluted earnings per share (EPS), versus $128 million, or 90 cents diluted EPS, in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 23 percent. Earnings in the current quarter benefited from higher U.S. and International sales of disinfecting products in response to demand associated with the H1N1 flu pandemic, double-digit sales growth in food products and robust gross margin expansion. These positive factors were partially offset by lower sales of Glad
products due to category softness, competitive activity and the company's exit from its private label food bags business; $9 million in pretax foreign currency transaction losses, or 4 cents diluted EPS, in "Other expense, net," primarily related to Venezuela; and $6 million in pretax restructuring-related charges, or 3 cents diluted EPS. (See "Non-GAAP financial information" below and the last page of this press release for information and a reconciliation of key first-quarter results.)
Earnings in the year-ago quarter included about $6 million in pretax restructuring-related charges, or 3 cents diluted EPS; pretax foreign currency transaction losses of $3 million, or 2 cents diluted EPS; and a pretax charge of $3 million, or 1 cent diluted EPS, related to the Burt's Bees acquisition.
Note: As a result of the adoption of a new accounting standard regarding calculation of earnings per share, diluted EPS for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 was reduced by 1 cent, from 91 cents to 90 cents. Further details will be available in this quarter's Form 10-Q filing.
Total volume increased 1 percent, primarily due to higher shipments of Clorox
disinfecting wipes and Hidden Valley
bottled salad dressing, largely offset by lower shipments of Glad
trash bags and the company's exit from its private-label food bags business.
Sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 declined 1 percent to $1.4 billion, compared to 12 percent sales growth in the year-ago quarter. Unfavorable foreign exchange rates reduced sales by 1.5 percentage points. The change in sales lagged volume growth primarily due to the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates, unfavorable product mix and higher trade-promotion spending. These factors were partially offset by the benefit of price increases, primarily in International.
Gross margin increased 450 basis points to 45.1 percent from 40.6 percent. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to the benefit of lower commodity costs, strong cost savings and price increases.
Net cash provided by operations was $94 million, flat to the year-ago period. These results reflect higher net earnings, offset by a voluntary $33 million pension plan contribution.
Page 1 of 9
The company's debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) ratio, as defined in our lending agreement, was 2.6 to 1 at Sept. 30, 2009.
Key segment results
Following is a summary of key first-quarter results by reportable segment. All comparisons are with the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, unless otherwise stated.
Cleaning
(Laundry, home care, auto, away from home)
4% volume growth 
3% sales growth 
19% pretax earnings growth
The segment's volume increase was driven by increased shipments of disinfecting products to meet demand associated with the H1N1 flu pandemic, reflected in all-time record shipments of Clorox
disinfecting wipes to retail and institutional customers. Also contributing to the volume growth were increased shipments of Pine-Sol
cleaner and all-time record shipments of Clorox
toilet bowl cleaners. These results were partially offset by lower shipments of auto-care products. Pretax earnings reflected the benefit of lower commodity costs versus the year-ago quarter, cost savings, price increases and sales growth.
Household
(Bags and wraps, charcoal, cat litter)
7% volume decline
11% sales decline
11% pretax earnings decline
The segment's volume decline was primarily driven by lower shipments of Glad
products and the company's exit from the private-label food bags business. These results were partially offset by all-time record shipments of Fresh Step
cat litter. The variance between changes in volume and sales was primarily driven by unfavorable product mix and higher trade-promotion spending in response to competitive activity. The decline in pretax earnings was primarily due to the impact of lower sales of Glad
products and higher advertising, partially offset by the benefit of lower commodity costs and cost savings.
Lifestyle
(Dressings and sauces, water filtration, global natural personal care)
4% volume growth 
3% sales growth 
18% pretax earnings growth
Page 2 of 9
The segment's volume growth compares with 35 percent volume growth in the year-ago quarter, which was primarily due to the Burt's Bees acquisition. The current quarter results were driven by increased shipments of Hidden Valley bottled salad dressing, propelled by highly effective marketing. Shipments of Brita and Burt's Bees products decreased due to the comparison with strong volume increases in the year-ago period. Pretax earnings reflected the benefit of higher sales of Hidden Valley bottled salad dressing and lower commodity costs versus the year-ago quarter.
International
(All countries outside of the U.S., excluding natural personal care)
3% volume growth 
4% sales growth 
38% pretax earnings growth
Volume growth was driven by increased shipments of bleach and other disinfecting products in Latin America due to increased demand as a result of the H1N1 flu pandemic. Sales growth benefitted from price increases, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange rates, which negatively impacted International sales by 8 percentage points. Pretax earnings reflected the benefit of sales growth and cost savings.
Clorox raises fiscal 2010 financial outlook for gross margin, diluted EPS
1-2 percent sales growth (unchanged) 
100-150 basis points gross margin improvement 
Diluted EPS in the range of $4.05-$4.20
Clorox continues to anticipate fiscal year 2010 sales growth in the range of 1-2 percent. This reflects the benefit of more favorable foreign currency outlook, offset by the impact of higher trade-promotion spending. Clorox now anticipates gross margin improvement in the range of 100-150 basis points, compared with 180 basis points of improvement in fiscal year 2009. This revised outlook assumes that improved currencies will more than offset the impact of higher trade-promotion spending and increased commodity costs, which the company now anticipates will be less favorable than previously anticipated.
Clorox now anticipates diluted EPS in the range of $4.05-$4.20. This outlook represents a high single-digit to low double-digit increase, on top of 17 percent diluted EPS growth in fiscal year 2009. This updated outlook includes an anticipated reduction of 2 cents diluted EPS as a result of the aforementioned new accounting standard. (Further details on this standard will be available in the first-quarter Form 10-Q filing.) Clorox continues to anticipate that the foreign currency transaction impact in "Other expense, net" will remain high due to currency exchange restrictions and costs in Venezuela.
For more detailed financial information
Visit the Investors: Financial Results section of the company's Web site at
www.TheCloroxCompany.com
for the following unaudited information:
Supplemental volume and sales growth information 
Supplemental gross margin driver information 
Reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial information, including earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 
Supplemental balance sheet and cash flow information 
Supplemental price-increase information
Note: Percentage and basis-point changes noted in this news release are calculated based on rounded numbers.
Page 3 of 9
Today's webcast
Today at 10:30 a.m. Pacific time (1:30 p.m. Eastern time), Clorox will host a live audio webcast of a discussion with the investment community regarding the company's first-quarter results. The webcast can be accessed at
http://investors.thecloroxcompany.com
. Following a live discussion, a replay of the webcast will be archived for one week on the company's Web site.
The Clorox Company
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with fiscal year 2009 revenues of $5.5 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers' most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Green Works natural cleaners, Armor All and STP auto-care products, Fresh Step and Scoop Away cat litter, Kingsford charcoal, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration systems, Glad
bags, wraps and containers, and Burt's Bees natural personal care products. With approximately 8,300 employees worldwide, the company manufactures products in more than two dozen countries and markets them in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $77 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges. In fiscal 2009 alone, the foundation awarded $3.6 million in cash grants, and Clorox made product donations valued at $7.8 million. For more information about Clorox, visit www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
Forward-looking statements
This press release contains "forward looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and such forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements about future volume, sales, costs, cost savings, earnings, cash outflows, plans, objectives, expectations, growth, or profitability, are forward looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "targets," "goals," "projects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," and variations on such words, and similar expressions, are intended to identify such forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are only predictions, subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed above. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to differ materially from management's expectations are described in the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2009, as updated from time to time in the company's SEC filings. These factors include, but are not limited to, the company's costs, including volatility and increases in commodity costs such as resin, diesel, chlor-alkali, agricultural commodities and other raw materials; increases in energy costs; unfavorable general economic and marketplace conditions and events, including consumer confidence and consumer spending levels, the rate of economic growth, the rate of inflation, and the financial condition of our customers and suppliers; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; unfavorable political conditions in international markets and risks relating to international operations; consumer and customer reaction to price increases; risks relating to acquisitions, mergers and divestitures; the ability of the company to implement and generate expected savings from its programs to reduce costs, including its supply chain restructuring and operating model changes; the success of the company's previously announced Centennial Strategy; the need for any additional restructuring or asset-impairment charges; the company's ability to achieve the projected strategic and financial benefits from the Burt's Bees acquisition; customer-specific ordering patterns and trends; competitive actions; changes in the company's tax rate; supply disruptions or any future supply constraints that may affect key commodities or product inputs; risks inherent in sole-supplier relationships; risks related to customer concentration; risks arising out of natural disasters; the impact of disease outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics; risks related to the handling and/or transportation of hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine; risks inherent in litigation; the company's ability to maintain its business reputation and the reputation of its brands; the impact of the volatility of the debt markets on the company's access to funds, including its access to commercial paper and its credit facility; risks inherent in maintaining an effective system of internal controls, including the potential impact of acquisitions or the use of third-party service providers; the ability to manage and realize the benefit of joint ventures and other cooperative relationships, including the company's joint venture regarding the company's Glad
plastic bags, wraps and containers business, and the agreements relating to the provision of information technology and related services by third parties; the conversion of any information systems; the success of new products; risks relating to changes in the company's capital structure; and the ability of the company to successfully manage tax, regulatory, product liability (including class action litigation), intellectual property, environmental and other legal matters, including the risk resulting from joint and several liability for environmental contingencies. Declines in cash flow, whether resulting from tax payments, debt payments, share repurchases, interest cost increases greater than management's expectations, or increases in debt or changes in credit ratings, or otherwise, could adversely affect the company's earnings.
Page 4 of 9
The company's forward looking statements in this report are based on management's current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward looking statements. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws.
Non-GAAP financial information
This press release contains non-GAAP financial information relating to EPS, sales growth and gross margin. Included on the last page of this release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP).
The company has disclosed information related to diluted EPS, sales and gross margin on a non-GAAP basis to supplement its condensed consolidated statements of earnings presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items that are included in the company's EPS, sales and gross margin reported in accordance with GAAP, including:
Charges associated with simplification of the company's supply chain, operating model implementation and other restructuring-related charges. 
The impact of the company's acquisition of Burt's Bees, Inc., completed on Nov. 30, 2007. 
The impact of foreign exchange and foreign currency transactions. 
The impact of the company's exit from its private label food bags business.
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful additional information to investors about current trends in the company's operations and are useful for period over period comparisons of operations. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measures. In addition, these non-GAAP measures may not be the same as similar measures provided by other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded. They should only be read in connection with the company's condensed consolidated statements of earnings presented in accordance with GAAP.
See the following pages for these unaudited first-quarter results:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings 
Reportable Segment Information 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets 
First-quarter sales growth reconciliation 
First-quarter gross margin reconciliation 
First-quarter diluted EPS reconciliation
Media relations
Dan Staublin 510-271-1622, dan.staublin@clorox.com
Kathryn Caulfield 510-271-7209
Investor relations
Li-Mei Johnson 510-271-3396, li-mei.johnson@clorox.com
Steve Austenfeld 510-271-2270
Page 5 of 9
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Unaudited)
Dollars in millions, except per share amounts
Page 6 of 9
Reportable Segment Information (Unaudited)
Dollars in millions
Page 7 of 9
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
Dollars in millions
Page 8 of 9
The tables below present the unaudited reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other supplemental information. See "Non-GAAP Financial Information" above for further information regarding the company's use of non-GAAP financial measures.
First-Quarter Sales Growth Reconciliation
The Burt's Bees acquisition closed on Nov. 30, 2007.
First-Quarter Gross Margin Reconciliation
First-Quarter Diluted EPS Reconciliation
Page 9 of 9

Supplemental
Information
Volume
Growth
Supplemental
Information
Sales
Growth
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) and Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA)
(1)
Reconciliation schedule of earnings before income taxes to EBIT, EBITDA, and debt to EBITDA
Dollars in millions and percentages based on rounded numbers
Inventories
and
accounts payable
decreased primarily due to the timing of scheduled charcoal plant shutdown and lower commodity prices.  
Accrued liabilities
increased primarily due to restructuring-related accruals associated with the implementation of the operating model and an increase in dividend accruals as a result of an increased dividend rate.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $34 million
Depreciation and amortization for the first quarter was $48 million
Cash provided by operations
Net cash provided by operations in the first quarter was $94 million, compared with $93 million in the year-ago quarter. Cash provided by operations in the current quarter reflects higher net earnings, offset by a voluntary $33 million pension contribution.
Supplemental
Information
Gross
Margin
Drivers
The table below
provides
details on the drivers of gross
margin
change
versus the prior year.
U.S. Pricing Actions from CY2005 - CY2009
U.S. Pricing Actions from CY2005 - CY2009 (Continued)
Notes:
Average % increase reflects brand averages rounded to the whole percent. Individual SKUs vary versus the average. 
This communication reflects pricing actions on primary items.


