FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20101105115010.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
ITEM 2.01. COMPLETION OF ACQUISITION OR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS.
 
On November 5, 2010, The Clorox Company (the Company) completed the sale (the Transaction) of substantially all of its global auto care businesses (the Auto Businesses), which consist of the business of developing, formulating, supplying, manufacturing, packaging, marketing, selling and distributing certain appearance and performance products specifically formulated and sold under the brand names Armor All, STP, Oomph!, Son of a Gun, Tuff Stuff and Car Buddy for use with motor vehicles worldwide, pursuant to the terms of a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Viking Acquisition Inc. (the Purchaser) dated September 21, 2010. The Auto Businesses auto-care manufacturing facilities, one in the U.S. and one in the United Kingdom. Employees at these facilities, the management team of the Auto Businesses and other emp loyees affiliated with the Auto Businesses have transferred to the Purchaser in connection with the . The Purchaser is owned by affiliates of Avista Capital Holdings, L.P. Neither the Company nor any of its officers and directors, or associates of such persons, has any relationship with the Purchaser or Avista Capital Holdings, L.P.
include two
Transaction
 
The Company received cash consideration for the Auto Businesses in the amount of $756 million. The Company will also receive cash flows of approximately $30 million related to working capital that was retained by the Company as part of the Purchase Agreement. In addition, pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, a subsequent adjustment to the purchase price may be made based upon the Auto Businesses worldwide inventory and working capital of the U.K. Auto Business on the date that the Transaction was completed.
 
As part of the Purchase Agreement, the Company will provide certain transitional services to the Purchaser for up to eighteen months. The purpose of these services is to provide short-term assistance to the Purchaser in assuming the operations of the Auto Businesses. These services do not confer to the Company the ability to influence the operating or financial policies of the Auto Businesses under its new ownership. The Companys cash inflows and outflows from these services are expected to be insignificant during the transition period.
a
period
of
 
The foregoing description of the Purchase Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Purchase Agreement, a copy of which was previously filed as Exhibit 2.01 to the Form 8-K filed on September 22, 2010 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits included herein, contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and such forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements regarding actions and potential claims post-consummation of the transaction, are forward looking statements based on managements estimates, assumptions and projections. These forward looking statements are only predictions, subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed above. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to differ materially from managements expectations are described in the sections ent itled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010, as updated from time to time in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). These factors include, without limitation, the general economic conditions of the regions and industries in which Clorox operates.
 
The Companys forward-looking statements are based on managements current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws.
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
On November 5, 2010, The Clorox Company (the Company) completed the sale (the Transaction) of substantially all of its global auto care businesses (the Auto Businesses), which consist of the business of developing, formulating, supplying, manufacturing, packaging, marketing, selling and distributing certain appearance and performance products specifically formulated and sold under the brand names Armor All, STP, Oomph!, Son of a Gun, Tuff Stuff and Car Buddy for use with motor vehicles worldwide, pursuant to the terms of a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Viking Acquisition Inc. (the Purchaser) dated September 21, 2010. The Purchaser is owned by affiliates of Avista Capital Holdings, L.P.
 
The Company received cash consideration for the Auto Businesses in the amount of $756 million. The Company will also receive cash flows of approximately $30 million related to working capital that was retained by the Company as part of the Purchase Agreement. In addition, pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, a subsequent adjustment to the purchase price may be made based upon the Auto Businesses worldwide inventory and working capital of the U.K. Auto Business on the date that the Transaction was completed.
 
The
unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2010 is based on the Companys balance sheet as of September 30, 2010, after giving effect to the sale as if it had occurred as of September 30, 2010. The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 give effect to the sale of the Auto Businesses as if it had occurred on July 1, 2007. The Company has not presented the unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, as the results of operations of the Auto Businesses were reported as discontinued operations in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commissi on ("SEC") on November 3, 2010.
 
The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ending June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 have been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included in its fiscal 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2010 has been derived from the unaudited Condensed Financial Statements included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. The unaudited pro forma financial statement information is based upon available information and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable.
 
The unaudited pro forma financial information has been provided for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the Company's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the sale occurred as of the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the Company. The unaudited pro forma financial statement information, including the notes thereto, should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements of the Company included in its fiscal 2010 Annual Report on 10-K and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, that have been filed with the SEC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


