FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20101102084547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.)
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On November 2, 2010, The Clorox Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results
    
for its first quarter ended September 30, 2010. The full text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
    
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference is supplemental financial information.
    
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
    
 
 
 
 
 

 
Clorox Reports First-Quarter Results and Includes Auto Care Businesses in Discontinued Operations; Updates Fiscal 2011 Outlook
 
OAKLAND, Calif., Nov. 2, 2010  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) today reported a 3 percent decline in sales and flat earnings from continuing operations for its fiscal first quarter, which ended Sept. 30.
 
As announced on Sept. 21, Clorox has reached an agreement for the sale of its global Auto Care businesses. For the current and year-ago quarters, the results from these businesses are now included in discontinued operations on Cloroxs statements of earnings, and assets being transferred are classified as held for sale on the companys balance sheets. All results in this press release are on a continuing operations basis, unless otherwise stated. (For more information, see the section below entitled Impact of Auto Care Businesses Divestiture, and supplemental materials in the Financial Results section of the companys website at www.TheCloroxCompany.com.)
 
Fiscal First-Quarter Results
 
We faced a challenging economic environment, as evidenced by category softness in the U.S. along with the impact of the Venezuela currency devaluation, said Chairman and CEO Don Knauss. Late first-quarter shipments were particularly soft and that trend has continued into the first weeks of our second quarter. While were disappointed not to have delivered stronger first-quarter results, we manage our business for the long term. I believe were taking the right actions to maintain the long-term health of our brands and help strengthen our categories as the economy recovers.
 
Said Knauss, Looking at the full fiscal year, I feel good about our plans to drive volume and sales growth. We are aggressively managing competitive price gaps and continuing to invest in strong consumer communications, innovation, support for new products and bringing value to consumers. Importantly, our focus on brand-building activities is paying off with higher market shares.
 
Following is a summary of key first-quarter results. All comparisons are with the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, unless otherwise stated.
98 cents diluted earnings per share (EPS) (versus 99 cents diluted EPS in the year-ago quarter)
2
%
volume decline
3
%
sales decline
Clorox reported first-quarter net earnings from continuing operations of $140 million, or 98 cents diluted EPS, versus $140 million, or 99 cents diluted EPS, in the year-ago quarter. Including discontinued operations, net earnings were $216 million, or $1.52 diluted earnings per share, compared with $157 million, or $1.11 diluted EPS, in the year-ago quarter. (See Non-GAAP Financial Information below and the last two pages of this press release for information and a reconciliation of key first-quarter results.)
 
Fiscal First-Quarter Earnings Reconciliation
 
Volume declined 2 percent, primarily due to lower shipments of Glad food-storage products and Scoop Away cat litter, and the comparison with a strong increase in shipments of disinfecting products in the year-ago quarter related to the H1N1 flu pandemic. Volume in the quarter was also negatively impacted by strong retailer merchandising of Kingsford charcoal and Hidden Valley bottled salad dressing in the prior quarter.
 
Sales declined 3 percent to $1.27 billion, primarily due to volume softness, the impact of the Venezuela currency devaluation, and modestly higher trade-promotion spending to support new products and respond to competitive activity in select categories. This was partially offset by the benefit of price increases.
 
Gross margin decreased 40 basis points to 44.3 percent from 44.7 percent in the year-ago quarter, when gross margin increased about 400 basis points. The decrease in the current quarter gross margin was primarily driven by reinflation of commodity costs, the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates and higher trade-promotion spending. These factors were partially offset by strong cost savings.
 
Cash provided by operations, including net cash provided by discontinued operations, increased to $148 million from $94 million in the year-ago quarter. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to changes in working capital and a lower pension contribution.
 
Key segment results
Following is a summary of key first-quarter results by reportable segment. All comparisons are with the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, unless otherwise stated.
 
Cleaning
(Laundry, home care, away from home)
1
%
volume growth
1
%
sales decline
2
%
pretax earnings growth
The segments volume increase was primarily driven by all-time record shipments of Clorox disinfecting wipes as retailers prepared for the current years flu season, exceeding a high level of shipments in the year-ago quarter related to the H1N1 flu pandemic. Also contributing to the higher volume were growth in the away-from-home business and increased shipments of Pine-Sol cleaners. These results were partially offset by lower shipments of Green Works products, due in part to the launch of Green Works laundry detergent in the year-ago quarter. The variance between the changes in volume and sales were due to higher trade-promotion spending and unfavorable prod uct mix. Pretax earnings reflected strong cost savings and lower advertising expense, partially offset by lower sales and higher commodity costs.
 
Page 2 of 12
 
 
Household
(Bags and wraps, charcoal, cat litter) 
9
%
volume decline
7
%
sales decline
4
%
pretax earnings decline
The segments volume decline was primarily driven by lower shipments of Glad food-storage products and Scoop Awaycat litter. Also contributing to the volume decline was lower shipments of Kingsford charcoal due to strong retailer merchandising in the prior quarter. The variance between changes in volume and sales was primarily due to favorable product mix. Pretax earnings reflected the decline in sales and unfavorable commodity costs, partially offset by strong cost savings.
 
Lifestyle
(Dressings and sauces, water filtration, global natural personal care)
1
%
volume growth
1
%
sales growth
12% pretax earnings decline
The segments volume growth was driven by higher shipments of Brita water-filtration products and Burts Bees natural personal care products. The Brita results were due to increased merchandising activity. The Burts Bees results included strong performance of Burts Bees acne products and the re-launch of body lotion. Offsetting growth were lower shipments of Hidden bottled salad dressing due to strong retailer merchandising
Valleyranch
in the prior quarter. The decline in pretax earnings reflected higher trade-promotion spending, higher manufacturing and logistics costs, and higher selling and administrative expense partially due to supporting the Burts Bees international expansion. These factors were partially offset by the benefit of strong cost savings.
International
(All countries outside of the U.S., excluding natural personal care)
2
%
volume decline
2
%
sales decline
7
%
pretax earnings decline
Volume decreased due to the comparison with a strong increase in shipments of disinfecting products in the year-ago period related to the H1N1 flu pandemic, lower shipments in Venezuela and lower shipments of Glad products in Australia. The decline in sales includes the impact of the Venezuela currency devaluation, offset by the benefit of price increases and favorable exchange rates in other countries. Pretax earnings reflected the change in sales, unfavorable commodity costs, increased manufacturing and logistics costs, and higher selling and administrative expenses. These factors were partially offset by the benefit of price increases and strong cost savings.
 
Impact of Auto Care Businesses Divestiture
 
As a result of the Auto Care businesses being reported as discontinued operations, Clorox recognized a first-quarter tax benefit of $60 million in earnings from discontinued operations. Accounting rules require that Clorox recognize a deferred tax asset to reflect the tax benefit the company expects to realize on the sale of the businesses because the tax basis in the assets being sold is higher than the book basis in the assets. Clorox expects the transaction to close in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, which ends June 30, 2011.
 
Page 3 of 12
 
 
Clorox plans to use net proceeds from the sale to repurchase shares of its stock during this fiscal year. Combined with planned share repurchases to offset stock option dilution, Clorox anticipates repurchasing between 12 million and 13 million shares of its common stock during fiscal year 2011, with about two-thirds of the planned repurchases occurring in the second quarter and the balance in the third quarter.
 
The company now anticipates that the divestiture of the Auto Care businesses will reduce diluted EPS about 20 cents for fiscal year 2011. This includes the loss of earnings resulting from the divestiture, partially offset by the benefit of share repurchases and anticipated fiscal year 2011 revenues from an agreement under which Clorox will provide transition services to the buyer for a period of up to 18 months.
 
Clorox Updates Fiscal 2011 Financial Outlook
0-2 percent sales growth
25-50 basis points gross margin growth (unchanged)
Diluted EPS from continuing operations in the range of $4.05-$4.20
Due primarily to category softness, Clorox now anticipates sales growth in the range of 0-2 percent. This range includes more favorable foreign currencies than previously anticipated.
 
Reflecting the updated sales outlook, Clorox now anticipates diluted EPS in the range of $4.20 to $4.35 from combined earnings on continuing and discontinued operations, excluding the gain and deferred tax benefit on the sale of the Auto Care businesses. On a continuing operations basis, Clorox anticipates diluted earnings per share in the range of $4.05 to $4.20.
 
*
See details in the section above entitled Impact of the Auto Care Businesses Divestiture.
For more detailed financial information
 
Visit the Investors: Financial Results section of the companys Web site at
www.TheCloroxCompany.com
for the following:
Supplemental volume and sales growth information
Supplemental gross margin driver information
Reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial information, including earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)
Supplemental balance sheet and cash flow information
Supplemental price-change information
Supplemental reclassified segment information for fiscal 2010
Page 4 of 13
 
 
 
Note: Percentage and basis-point changes noted in this news release are calculated based on rounded numbers.
Todays webcast
 
Today at 10:30 a.m. Pacific time (1:30 p.m. Eastern time), Clorox will host a live audio webcast of a discussion with the investment community regarding the companys first-quarter results. The webcast can be accessed at
http://investors.thecloroxcompany.com
. Following a live discussion, a replay of the webcast will be archived for one week on the companys website.
 
The Clorox Company
 
water-filtration products, Glad bags and wraps and containers, and Burts Bees natural personal care products. Nearly 90 percent of Clorox Company brands hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories. The companys products are manufactured in more than two dozen countries and sold in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $80 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges. In fiscal year 2010 alone, the foundation awarded $3.5 million in cash grants, and Clorox made product donations valued at $8.8 million. For more information about Clorox, visit
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with 8,300 employees and fiscal year 2010 revenues of $5.53 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers' most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Green Works naturally derived home care products, Pine-Sol cleaners, Poett home care products, Fresh Step cat litter, Kingsford charcoal, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita
www.TheCloroxCompany.com
.
Forward-looking statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements about future volume, sales, costs, cost savings, earnings, cash flows, plans, objectives, expectations, growth, or profitability, are statements based on managements estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as will, could, may, expects, anticipates, targets, goals, &# 8220;projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, and variations on such words, and similar expressions, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions, subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed above. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to differ materially from managements expectations are described in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010, as updated from time to time in the companys SEC filings. These factors include, but are not limited to: the companys costs, including volatility and increases in commodity costs such as resin, diesel, chlor-alkali, sodium hypochl orite, agricultural commodities and other raw materials; increases in energy costs; the ability of the company to implement and generate expected savings from its programs to reduce costs, including its supply chain restructuring and other restructuring plans; supply disruptions or any future supply constraints that may affect key commodities or product inputs; risks inherent in relationships with suppliers, including sole-source or single-source suppliers;
forward-looking
 
Page 5 of 12
 
 
 
risks related to the handling and/or transportation of hazardous substances, including, but not limited to, chlorine; the success of the companys strategies; the ability to manage and realize the benefits of joint ventures and other cooperative relationships, including the companys joint venture regarding the companys Glad
plastic bags, wraps and containers business, and the agreements relating to the provision of information technology, procure to pay and other key services by third parties; risks relating to acquisitions, mergers and divestitures, including the companys ability to achieve the projected strategic and financial benefits from the Burts Bees
acquisition or the companys ability to successfully execute on planned divestitures, including the sale of the global Auto Care businesses, and the costs associated therewith; risks inherent in maintaining an effective system of internal controls, including the potential impact of acquisitions or the use of third-party service providers, and the need to refine controls to adjust for accounting, financial reporting and other organizational changes or business conditions; the ability of the company to successfully manage tax, regulatory, product liability, intellectual property, environmental and other legal matters, including the risk resulting from joint and several liability for environmental contingencies and risks inherent in litigation, including class action litigation; risks related to maintaining and updating the companys information systems, including potential disruptions, costs and the ability of the company to implement adequate information systems in order to support the current business and to support the companys potential growth; the success of new products and the ability of the company to develop products that delight the consumer; consumer and customer reaction to price increases; competitive actions; risks related to customer concentration; customer-specific ordering patterns and trends; risks arising out of natural disasters; the impact of disease outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics on the companys, suppliers or customers operations; changes in the companys tax rate; continuing unfavorable worldwide general economic and marketplace conditions and events, including consumer confidence and consumer spending levels, the rate of economic growth, the rate of inflation or deflation, and the financial condition of the companys customers, suppliers and service providers; foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; unfavorable political conditions in international markets and risks relating to international operations ; the impact of the volatility of the debt markets on the companys cost of borrowing and access to funds, including commercial paper and its credit facility; risks relating to changes in the companys capital structure, including risks related to the companys ability to execute on share repurchase plans and the impact thereof on the companys capital structure and earnings per share; the need for any unanticipated restructuring or asset-impairment charges; risks arising from declines in cash flow, whether resulting from declining sales, higher cost levels, tax payments, debt payments, share repurchases, interest cost increases greater than managements expectations, or increases in debt or changes in credit ratings, or otherwise; and the companys ability to maintain its business reputation and the reputation of its brands.
 
The companys forward-looking statements in this report are based on managements current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws.
forward-looking
 
Non-GAAP financial information
 
This press release contains non-GAAP financial information relating to diluted EPS, sales growth and gross margin. Included on the last page of this release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP).
 
The company has disclosed information related to diluted EPS, sales and gross margin on a non-GAAP basis to supplement its condensed consolidated statements of earnings presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items that are included in the companys EPS, sales and gross margin reported in accordance with GAAP, including:
Charges associated with simplification of the companys supply chain, operating model implementation and other restructuring-related charges.
The impact of foreign exchange and foreign currency transactions.
The impact of the companys exit from its private label food bags business.
The impact of the pending sale of the companys auto care businesses
Page 6 of 12
 
 
 
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful additional information to investors about current trends in the companys operations and are useful for period over period comparisons of operations. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measures. In addition, these non-GAAP measures may not be the same as similar measures provided by other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded. They should only be read in connection with the companys condensed consolidated statements of earnings presented in accordance with GAAP.
 
Management believes that economic profit, defined as profit generated over and above the estimated cost of capital used by the business to generate that profit, is the metric that best aligns over the long term with creating value and generating shareholder return.
 
See the following pages for these unaudited first-quarter results:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Reportable Segment Information and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
Reconciliation of First-Quarter Sales Growth, Gross Margin and Diluted EPS
Media relations
 
Dan Staublin 510-271-1622,
dan.staublin@clorox.com
 
Kathryn Caulfield 510-271-7209,
kathryn.caulfield@clorox.com
 
Investor relations
 
Li-Mei Johnson 510-271-3396,
li-mei.johnson@clorox.com
 
Steve Austenfeld 510-271-2270,
steve.austenfeld@clorox.com
 
For recent presentations made by company management and other investor materials, visit
http://investors.thecloroxcompany.com/events.cfm
.
 
Page 7 of 12
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Unaudited)
Dollars in millions, except per share amounts
 
 
Page 8 of 12
 
 
Reportable Segment Information (Unaudited)
Dollars in millions
 
 
Page 9 of 12
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
Dollars in millions
 
 
Page 10 of 12
 
 
The tables below present the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other supplemental information. See Non-GAAP Financial Information above for further information regarding the companys use of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
First-Quarter Sales Growth Reconciliation
 
Note: Q1 FY10 base sales growth has not been adjusted to reflect the reporting of the Auto businesses in discontinued operations in Q1 FY11.
 
First-Quarter Gross Margin Reconciliation
 
Note: Q1 FY10 gross margin drivers have not been adjusted to reflect the reporting of the Auto businesses in discontinued operations in Q1 FY11.
 
 
Page 11 of 12
 
 
First-Quarter Diluted EPS Reconciliation
 
Note: The following table reflects the reclassification of the Auto businesses to discontinued operations in Q1 FY11.
 
Page 12 of 12
 

 
 
Supplemental
Information
Volume
Growth
 
 
 
Supplemental
Information
Sales
Growth
 
 
 
 
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT), Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA)
(1)
 
Reconciliation schedule of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes to EBIT and EBITDA
 
Dollars in millions and percentages based on rounded numbers
 
 
 
Working Capital Update
Note: As a result of the Auto Care businesses related assets (primarily inventory) being classified to assets held for sale in the current fiscal quarter, fiscal 2010 have been reclassified to conform to current quarter presentation. Fiscal 2009 balances, used for average working capital calculations, have not been adjusted.
Receivables
increased primarily due to the change in auto customer payment terms (note: as part of the agreement to sell the Auto Care businesses, the company retains ownership of most of the accounts receivable on hand at the closing date of the sale). 
Inventories
increased primarily due to increases in certain commodity costs, inventory builds for current year products launches and lower year-ago charcoal inventory levels due to the timing of scheduled plant shutdown. 
Account payable
and
accrued liabilities
increased mainly due to the timing of payments for certain expenses, capital expenditures for the quarter and dividend accruals as a result of an increased dividend rate.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $34 million
 
Depreciation and amortization for the first quarter was $45 million
 
Cash provided by operations
 
Net cash provided by operations in the first quarter, including cash provided by discontinued operations, was $148 million, compared with $94 million provided by operations in the year-ago quarter. Higher net cash provided by operations in the current quarter was primarily due to changes in working capital and an $18 million lower pension contribution in the current quarter versus the prior year quarter.
 
 
Supplemental
Information
 
Gross
Margin
Drivers
 
The table below
provides
details on the drivers of gross
margin
change
versus the prior year.
 
 
 
U.S. Pricing Actions from CY2008 - CY2010
 
Notes:
Individual SKUs vary within the range.
   
This communication reflects pricing actions on primary items.
   
 
 


