FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20101223162502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[    ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[    ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[    ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[    ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
     
(e)
Material Compensatory Plan.
 
On December 17, 2010 a subcommittee of the Management Development and
Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors (the Board) of The Clorox Company (the Company) approved an Executive Change in Control Severance Plan (the Plan) to provide for the payment of severance benefits to certain eligible executives of the Company, including all of the Companys named executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), in the event their employment with the Company terminates involuntarily in connection with a change in control of the Company. The Plan replaces individual agreements previously entered into with certain of the Companys senior executives, including all of the Companys named executive officers other than the CEO (the Prior Agreements). T he Plan will become effective after the expiration of the Prior Agreements, which expire on January 17, 2011.
 
The Plan alters the severance benefits under the Prior Agreements in several respects, including by reducing the amount of cash severance payable to a covered executive. Whereas the Prior Agreements provided for payments equal to three (3) times the sum of an executives base salary and average annual bonus, the Plan reduces that multiplier to two (2).
The Plan also eliminates a tax gross-up provision contained in the Prior Agreements that was intended to reimburse an executive for any additional tax liability created by the golden parachute provisions of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). Instead, the Plan provides that an executives severance benefits may be cut back in order to avoid any tax liability under these Code provisions if the cutback would permit the executive to receive a greater amount of the sever ance benefits on an after-tax basis. If the cutback would not accomplish this result, then no cutback in benefits would occur.
 
In addition, the Plan places greater restrictions on the ability of an executive to resign in connection with a change in control and still receive severance benefits. In particular, if an executive is reassigned to a different position with a substantially similar level and scope of authority, duties, responsibilities and reporting relationship, then the executive would not resign and receive severance benefits. The period during which the Company provides subsidized medical and dental coverage to covered executives after termination has also been reduced under the Plan.
 
The Plan permits the Committee to make changes to the Plan adverse to covered executives with twelve (12) months advance notice. If a change in control of the Company occurs during that 12 month period, then such changes would not become effective. The Prior Agreements required advance notice for adverse amendments or non-renewal of a minimum period of 2 years and 2 months before such action was to take effect, unless the executive was to agree to a shorter period.
 
 
 
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


