FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20111006170318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[    ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[    ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[    ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[    ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On October 3, 2011, Daniel J. Heinrich notified The Clorox Company (the Company)
of his intention to retire from his position as Executive Vice President  Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective as of November 16, 2011.
 
Effective as of November 17, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company determined to appoint Stephen M. Robb, 47, as the Companys Senior Vice President  Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Robb has been the Companys Vice President  Global Finance since January 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Robb held the position of Vice President  Financial Planning and Analysis  October 2004. Mr. Robbs compensation for the Chief Financial Officer position has not yet been determined.
since
 
A
press release regarding these management changes is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
    
(d)
Exhibits
 
 
 
    
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Clorox EVP
CFO Dan Heinrich to Retire; Steve Robb Named SVP
CFO
 
OAKLAND, Calif., Oct. 6, 2011 
The Clorox Company (NYSE:CLX) today announced the following changes:
 
Executive Vice President  Chief Financial Officer
Daniel J. Dan Heinrich
, 55, has announced his retirement from the company effective Nov. 16, 2011. Heinrich, who joined Clorox in 2001 as the companys controller, was appointed chief financial officer and a member of the companys executive committee in 2003. In addition to his current role leading all aspects of the finance, business development and investor relations functions and corporate administrative services, during his career with Clorox, Heinrich also oversaw the corporate communications, risk management and IT functions. Heinrich was twice recognized by Institutional Investor as Best CFO in the cosmetics, household products, and personal care sector. In 2009, Heinrich was selected by the San Francisco Business Times as San Francisco Bay Area CFO of the Year.
 
Dan has been a significant leader at Clorox, and his financial and overall business expertise is tremendous, said Chairman and CEO Don Knauss. He strongly led our financial operations and was instrumental in developing our overall company strategies, which have delivered superior stockholder returns over a multiyear period. We are indebted to Dan for his many contributions and wish him the very best.
 
It has been an honor to work alongside such a strong team of outstanding professionals at Clorox, Heinrich said. Im proud of what we have accomplished together over the last 10 years, particularly our strong performance through the global recession. With the company well positioned to weather through the market volatility we're seeing, now is the right time for me to retire from Clorox. I leave the company in very capable hands.
 
Effective Nov. 17, 2011,
Stephen M. Steve Robb,
47, will succeed Heinrich and has been appointed senior vice president  chief financial officer and a member of the companys executive management committee, reporting to CEO Knauss. Robb, who joined Clorox in 1989, is currently Cloroxs vice president  finance, with day-to-day responsibility for most operations of the global finance function. As CFO, Robb will oversee accounting, reporting, internal controls, treasury, tax and investor relations.
 
The board and executive management teams robust succession planning has enabled us to appoint such a strong leader as Steve to the CFO role and will enable a smooth transition, said Knauss. With 22 years experience across the Clorox finance organization, he brings a wealth of knowledge and in-depth financial expertise to the CFO role.
 
Photos of and additional biographical information on Heinrich and Robb are available at
http://investors.thecloroxcompany.com/bios.cfm?pg=1&showpage=cm
 
The Clorox Company
 
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with 8,100 employees and fiscal year 2011 revenues of $5.2 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers' most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Green Works naturally derived home care products, Pine-Sol cleaners, Poett home care products, Fresh Step cat litter, Kingsford charcoal, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration products, Glad bags, wraps and containers, and Burts Bees natural personal care products. Nearly 90 percent of Clorox Company brands hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories. The companys products are manufactured in more than two dozen countries and marketed in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $84 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges. In fiscal year 2011 alone, the foundation awarded $4 million in cash grants, and Clorox made product donations valued at $13 million. For more information about Clorox, visit www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
 
Media Relations:
Kathryn Caulfield (510) 271-7209, kathryn.caulfield@clorox.com Dan Staublin (510) 271-1622, dan.staublin@clorox.com
 
Investor Relations:
Steve Austenfeld (510) 271-2270, steve.austenfeld@clorox.com Lisah Burhan (510) 271-3269, lisah.burhan@clorox.com
 


