FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20110103154015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[    ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[    ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[    ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[    ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On January 3, 2011, The Clorox Company (the Company) issued a press release (the Release) announcing, among other things, preliminary financial information for its fiscal second quarter ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in the Release under the captions Preliminary Second Quarter Financial Information and Second Quarter 2011 Diluted EPS Range is incorporated herein by reference.
 
This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 2.06 Material Impairments
 
The Release also announced that the Company will record in its fiscal second quarter an after-tax, noncash goodwill impairment charge of $250 million to $255 million, or about $1.78 to $1.82 diluted earnings per share, related to its Burts Bees business. As previously disclosed, the Company had conducted its most recent annual goodwill impairment analysis as of April 1, 2010. At that time, it had concluded that the fair value of the Burts Bees reporting unit was in excess of its carrying book value by approximately 5%. Since then, the Company has continued to monitor events, circumstances and changes in the Burts Bees business to determine whether any such developments implied a reduction in its estimated fair value.
 
While Burts Bees operating results through the first quarter of fiscal 2011 continued to meet original projections, in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, management identified challenges in increasing sales in new international markets in accordance with projections, particularly in the European Union and Asia. Additionally, in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, management initiated its process for updating the three year long-range plan for the Burts Bees business. In addition to the slower than projected growth of international sales and challenges in the timing of certain international expansion plans, the domestic natural personal care category had not recovered in accordance with managements projections. Following the comprehensive reevaluation, management concluded on December 29, 2010 to recognize the impairment charge in the fiscal second quarter ended December 31, 2010.
 
The impairment charge is a result of changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of the Burts Bees reporting unit based on slower than forecasted category growth as well as recent challenges in international expansion plans, which have adversely affected the assumptions for international growth and the estimates of expenses necessary to achieve that growth. The revised assumptions have reduced the estimated present value of future cash flows of Burts Bees, resulting in the need for the impairment charge. In addition, the revised assumptions reflect somewhat higher cost levels than previously projected.
The Company may need to make future changes in its assumptions relating to the value of Burts Bees, which may result in additional impairment charges if the Companys sales growth and margin e xpansion expectations are not realized or macroeconomic factors such as economic and category growth rates, commodity prices and foreign currency rates change in unexpected ways. The Company expects that the impairment charge will not result in future cash expenditures.
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 also discusses, among other things, the Companys updated 2011 fiscal-year sales range, updated plans for share repurchases and information about the after-tax gain on the sale of the Companys global auto care businesses. The Release is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
     
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Clorox Provides Preliminary Second Quarter Financial Information and Fiscal Year Sales Range Update; Announces Goodwill Impairment
 
OAKLAND, Calif., Jan. 3, 2011  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) today announced preliminary financial information for its fiscal second quarter, which ended Dec. 31, 2010, and updated its sales outlook for its full fiscal year, which ends June 30, 2011. The company also announced a noncash goodwill impairment charge to adjust the carrying value of the goodwill related to its acquisition of Burts Bees to estimated fair value. In addition, the company updated its plans for the timing of share repurchases and the anticipated impact of the timing change on full fiscal year diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations. Finally, the company provided an estimated after-tax gain on the sale of its Auto Care businesses.
 
Preliminary Second Quarter Financial Information
 
For its second fiscal quarter, Clorox anticipates that sales will decline 3 percent to 4 percent versus the prior-year quarter. The company anticipates second quarter diluted EPS from continuing operations, excluding the noncash goodwill impairment charge, in the range of 57 cents to 63 cents. As previously communicated, the companys second quarter preliminary financial projections continue to reflect the impact of the Venezuela currency devaluation, comparison with strong increases in H1N1-related shipments of disinfecting products in the year-ago quarter, planned higher trade-promotion spending and the impact of a previously announced expansion of a customer product pick up program. In addition to those anticipated impacts, slowing category consumption experienced in the companys fiscal first quarter continued to impact shipments into the second quarter.
 
The economic environment in the second quarter has remained challenging and our categories in the U.S. have remained soft, said Chairman and CEO Don Knauss. We continued to invest in demand creation and increased trade spending in the quarter to compete effectively in this marketplace. Im pleased that our focus on supporting the health of our brands is paying off with increased market shares. As our categories strengthen, which we believe they will in calendar year 2011, we stand to benefit from our recent market-share gains.
 
Second Quarter 2011 Diluted EPS Range
 
See details in section below entitled Goodwill Impairment
(1)
Represents diluted EPS on the Auto Care businesses results from Oct. 1, 2010, through the date of sale on Nov. 5, 2010 See details in section below entitled Share Repurchases and Gain on Sale of Auto Care Businesses
(2)
(3)
 
Updates Fiscal Year 2011 Sales Outlook
 
For the full fiscal year, the company now anticipates sales in the range of flat to 1 percent growth. This sales outlook range includes the impact of soft categories during the first half of the fiscal year and an anticipated higher level of trade spending in the second half of the fiscal year than previously assumed. Clorox will provide a more complete update of its financial outlook for its current fiscal year when it issues its second quarter earnings report in February 2011.
 
 
Knauss went on to say, While second quarter sales results are likely to be a little lower than previously anticipated, as reflected in our updated full year sales outlook, we believe our categories are stabilizing, giving us momentum into the second half of the year, and we should benefit from our recent market share gains. We have a solid new-product pipeline, enabling further growth across a number of categories, and we anticipate improved performance in the second half of the year, including topline growth in the range of 2 percent to 4 percent. Further, the impact of the prior-year Venezuela devaluation and unusually strong year-ago H1N1-related sales will be behind us.
 
Goodwill Impairment
 
In its fiscal second quarter, the company will record an estimated after-tax, noncash goodwill impairment charge of $250 million to $255 million or about $1.78 to $1.82 diluted EPS related to its Burts Bees business. There will be no tax benefit associated with this noncash charge. The second quarter goodwill impairment charge is based on the companys current best estimate, which is subject to further adjustment as the company finalizes its goodwill impairment analysis in the third quarter.
 
The Burts Bees business remains a very solid contributor to Cloroxs results, with sales growth and profit margins above the company average, said Chief Financial Officer Dan Heinrich. However, the impacts of the continuing global economic recession and projected slower sales growth ramp-up in new international markets have caused us to moderate the growth rate assumptions we are now using in valuing the business. Despite the impairment, Burts Bees remains the fastest growing business unit in the company, with double-digit fiscal-year-to-date sales growth, and our revised estimates continue to project low double-digit sales growth for this business over the next several years.
 
Knauss added, As the U.S. market leader in natural personal care by a sizeable percentage, Burts Bees remains solidly in line with the consumer trends of sustainability and health and wellness. The brand and its products enjoy strong retailer support and have considerable domestic and international appeal. We are fully committed to investing in this business to drive growth and build share.
 
Share Repurchases and Gain on Sale of Auto Care Businesses
 
Clorox continues to anticipate repurchasing between 12 million and 13 million shares of its common stock during fiscal year 2011. Of this amount, the company has repurchased approximately 2.1 million shares of its common stock at an average share price of $63.07. The company anticipates resuming repurchases after its next quarterly earnings announcement in February 2011. Due to the change in the timing of share repurchases, the companys outlook for fiscal year diluted EPS from continuing operations is reduced by about 5 cents from previous estimates.
 
On Nov. 5, 2010, the company completed the sale of its global Auto Care businesses, and has included the financial results of the businesses through the date of sale in discontinued operations. In its fiscal second quarter, the company anticipates recording an after-tax gain on the sale of about $171 million. Including the $60 million deferred tax benefit from the sale recognized in the companys fiscal first quarter, the total after-tax gain on the sale of the Auto Care businesses is anticipated to be about $231 million, which will be reflected in discontinued operations.
 
The after-tax gain on sale of the Auto Care businesses is being reflected in earnings from discontinued operations as follows:
 
Page 2 of 4
 
 
The Clorox Company  
water-filtration products, Glad bags and wraps and containers, and Burts Bees natural personal care products. Nearly 90 percent of Clorox Company brands hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories. The companys products are manufactured in more than two dozen countries and sold in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $80 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges. In fiscal year 2010 alone, the foundation awarded $3.5 million in cash grants, and Clorox made product donations valued at $8.8 million. For more information about Clorox, visit
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with 8,300 employees and fiscal year 2010 revenues of $5.2 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers' most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Green Works naturally derived home care products, Pine-Sol cleaners, Poett home care products, Fresh Step cat litter, Kingsford charcoal, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita
www.TheCloroxCompany.com
.
Forward-looking statements  
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements about future volume, sales, costs, cost savings, earnings, cash flows, plans, objectives, expectations, growth, or profitability, are forward-looking statements based on managements estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as will, could, may, expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estim ates, and variations on such words, and similar expressions, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions, subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed above. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to differ materially from managements expectations are described in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010, as updated from time to time in the companys SEC filings. These factors include, but are not limited to: the companys costs, including volatility and increases in commodity costs such as resin, diesel, chlor-alkali, sodium hypochlorite, agricultural commodities and other raw materials; increases in energy costs; the ability of the company to implement and generate expected savings from its programs to reduce costs, including its supply chain restructuring and other restructuring plans; supply disruptions or any future supply constraints that may affect key commodities or product inputs; risks inherent in relationships with suppliers, including sole-source or single-source suppliers; risks related to the handling and/or transportation of hazardous substances, including, but not limited to, chlorine; the success of the companys strategies; the ability to manage and realize the benefits of joint ventures and other cooperative relationships, including the companys joint venture regarding the companys Glad plastic bags, wraps and containers business, and the agreements relating to the provision of information technology, procure to pay and other key services by third parties; risks relating to acquisitions, mergers and divestitures, including the companys ability t o achieve the updated strategic and financial benefits from the Burts Bees acquisition or the companys ability to successfully implement changes resulting from divestitures, including the sale of the global Auto Care businesses, and the costs associated therewith; risks inherent in maintaining an effective system of internal controls, including the potential impact of acquisitions or the use of third-party service providers, and the need to refine controls to adjust for accounting, financial reporting and other organizational changes or business conditions; the ability of the company to successfully manage tax, regulatory, product liability, intellectual property, environmental and other legal matters, including the risk resulting from joint and several liability for environmental contingencies and risks inherent in litigation, including class action litigation; risks related to maintaining and updating the companys info rmation systems, including potential disruptions, costs and the ability of the company to implement adequate information systems in order to support the current business and to support the companys potential growth; the success of new products and the ability of the company to develop products that delight the consumer; consumer and customer reaction to price increases; competitive actions; risks related to customer concentration; customer-specific ordering patterns and trends; risks arising out of natural disasters; the impact of disease outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics on the companys, suppliers or customers operations; changes in the companys tax rate; continuing unfavorable worldwide general economic and marketplace conditions and events, including consumer confidence and consumer spending levels, the rate of economic growth, the rate of inflation or deflation, and the financial condition of the companys customers, suppliers and service providers; foreign curren cy exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; unfavorable political conditions in international markets and risks relating to international operations; the impact of the volatility of the debt markets on the companys cost of borrowing and access to funds, including commercial paper and its credit facility; risks relating to changes in the companys capital
 
Page 3 of 4
 
 
structure, including risks related to the companys ability to execute on share repurchase plans and the impact thereof on the companys capital structure and earnings per share; the need for any unanticipated restructuring or asset-impairment charges; risks arising from declines in cash flow, whether resulting from declining sales, higher cost levels, tax payments, debt payments, share repurchases, interest cost increases greater than managements expectations, or increases in debt or changes in credit ratings, or otherwise; and the companys ability to maintain its business reputation and the reputation of its brands.
 
The companys forward-looking statements in this report are based on managements current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws.
 
Media relations
 
Dan Staublin 510-271-1622,
dan.staublin@clorox.com
 
Kathryn Caulfield 510-271-7209,
kathryn.caulfield@clorox.com
 
Investor relations
 
Li-Mei Johnson 510-271-3396,
li-mei.johnson@clorox.com
 
Steve Austenfeld 510-271-2270,
steve.austenfeld@clorox.com
 
Page 4 of 4
 


