FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20111102084522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
    
On November 2, 2011, The Clorox Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for its first quarter ended September 30, 2011. The full text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
    
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference is supplemental financial information.
    
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
    
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Clorox Reports Solid First-Quarter Results; Confirms Fiscal Year 2012 Outlook
 
OAKLAND, Calif., Nov. 2, 2011  The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) today announced solid results for its first quarter, which ended Sept. 30. Clorox reported 3 percent sales growth, driven by product innovation across the companys portfolio and the benefit of price increases.
 
Im pleased with our start to the fiscal year, said Chairman and CEO Don Knauss. "We delivered our third consecutive quarter of volume and sales growth, with diluted EPS from continuing operations equal to the year-ago quarter. Although our U.S. categories are still in slight decline, they are improving. Importantly, we continue to grow U.S. market shares."
 
All results in this press release are on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise stated, and some results are reported on a non-GAAP basis. See Non-GAAP Financial Information below and the tables toward the end of this press release for more information and a reconciliation of key first-quarter results.
 
Fiscal First-Quarter Results
 
Following is a summary of key first-quarter results. All comparisons are with the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, unless otherwise stated.
98 cents diluted earnings per share (EPS)
2% volume growth
3% sales growth
Clorox reported first-quarter earnings from continuing operations of $130 million, or 98 cents diluted EPS. This compares with $140 million from continuing operations, or 98 cents diluted EPS, in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results reflected higher cost of goods, largely offset by the benefit of price increases, higher volume and cost savings. Current quarter earnings also reflected advisory fees of $12 million, or 6 cents diluted EPS, related to a withdrawn proxy contest.
 
Total company pretax earnings from continuing operations decreased 7 percent in the quarter, while segment pretax earnings from continuing operations decreased 10 percent. The pretax earnings decrease in the segments was partially offset at the total company level (see Key Segment Results below and the Reportable Segment Information tables later in the press release for details).
 
Volume for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 grew 2 percent, driven by product innovation. Sales grew 3 percent, with increases in three of the companys four reportable segments. The sales benefit of price increases was partially offset by unfavorable mix.
 
Gross margin decreased 250 basis points to 41.8 percent from 44.3 percent in the year-ago quarter. The decrease in the current quarter gross margin was primarily driven by higher commodity costs, manufacturing and logistics costs, and product mix. These factors were partially offset by the benefit of price increases and strong cost savings.
 
"As expected, commodity cost increases and other inflationary pressures continue to pressure our margins," said Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Elect Steve Robb. Were taking the right steps to offset these impacts for the year. We anticipate the combined benefit of cost savings and broad price increases across our global portfolio will enable us to hold gross margin flat for the fiscal year, with year-over-year improvement beginning in the second quarter.
 
The effective tax rate of 30.5 percent for the current quarter was about flat versus the year-ago quarte
r
. The rates for both periods reflect the benefit of certain tax settlements.
 
 
Cash provided by continuing operations increased to $131 million from $126 million in the year-ago quarter. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to a discretionary pension contribution of $15 million in the year-ago quarter that did not recur in the current quarter, partially offset by lower earnings in the current quarter. For the full fiscal year, Clorox continues to anticipate free cash flow of about 10 percent of sales, within its targeted range of 10-12 percent. The company defines free cash flow as cash provided by continuing operations less capital expenditures.
 
During the first quarter, Clorox repurchased 129,000 shares of the companys common stock at a cost of approximately $9 million.
 
Key Segment Results
 
Following is a summary of key first-quarter results by reportable segment. All comparisons are with the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, unless otherwise stated.
 
Cleaning
 
(Laundry, home care, away from home)
1% volume decreas
2% sales decrease
11% pretax earnings decrease
Home Care grew volume behind higher shipments of Clorox disinfecting products driven by cold-and-flu season merchandising, and new product line extensions. Home Care gains were more than offset by lower shipments in the Laundry business due to continuing weak category trends and recent price increases. The variance between changes in volume and sales was primarily due to product mix, partially offset by the benefit of price increases. Pretax earnings reflected higher commodity costs, higher manufacturing and logistics costs, and product mix. These factors were partially offset by cost savings and lower advertising and sales promotion expenses.
 
Household
 
(Bags and wraps, charcoal, cat litter)
5% volume growth
3% sales growth
21% pretax earnings decrease
Volume growth for the segment was primarily driven by higher shipments in the Cat Litter business behind new product innovation, and strong shipment growth on Kingsford charcoal due to aggressive large-size product merchandising by a number of major retailers. Glad volume was down slightly, with strong volume gains on the Glad food storage line offset by base trash bags declines driven by price increases. The variance between volume and sales was primarily due to higher trade-promotion spending and product mix, partially offset by the benefit of price increases. Pretax earnings reflected higher commodity costs, higher manufacturing and logistics, and unfavorable product mix. These factors were partially offset by higher sales and cost savings.
 
Page 2 of 11
 
Lifestyle
 
(Dressings and sauces, water filtration, global natural personal care)
6% volume growth
6% sales growth
7% pretax earnings decrease
Higher volume in the segment was driven by shipment growth in all three business units. In particular, the Burts Bees business delivered double-digit volume growth, driven by new products and expansion in international markets. The Brita business grew volume behind the launch of the new Brita on-the-go bottle, which is ahead of expectations. Finally, food volume was up due to base brand growth and new products. Sales growth reflected the benefit of price increases, offset by product mix and higher trade-promotion spending. The decline in pretax earnings reflected higher commodity costs and higher advertising and sales promotion behind new product launches. These factors were partially offset by higher sales.
 
International
 
(All countries outside of the U.S., excluding natural personal care)
3% volume growth
9% sales growth
3% pretax earnings growth
International volume increased primarily due to growth in the companys well-established Argentina business, the expansion of its Glad business in China, and distribution gains in a number of small emerging countries in Asia and the Middle East. These results were partially offset by lower shipments of Glad products in Canada due to category softness. The variance between volume and sales growth reflects the benefit of price increases and favorable foreign exchange, partially offset by mix. Contributing to pretax earnings growth were sales growth and favorable foreign exchange rates. These factors were partially offset by higher manufacturing and logistics costs, higher commodity costs and selling and administrative expenses associated with investments in information systems infrastructure.
Clorox Confirms Fiscal 2012 Sales, Gross Margin and EPS Outlook
 
Clorox confirmed its previous financial outlook for fiscal year 2012 continuing operations:
1-3 percent sales growth
Gross margin about flat
Diluted EPS in the range of $4.00-$4.10, including incremental IT systems and facility investments in the range of 18-20 cents diluted EPS
Despite unfavorable foreign exchange and product mix versus prior assumptions, Clorox continues to anticipate sales growth of 1-3 percent for fiscal year 2012.
 
Page 3 of 11
 
 
The company continues to expect gross margin to be about flat versus the prior fiscal year. Although mix and inflationary pressures were greater than anticipated in the first quarter, Clorox continues to expect year-over-year commodity cost increases in the range of $140 million to $150 million, as well as $40 million to $50 million of inflationary pressure in manufacturing and logistics expenses.
The company continues to anticipate inflationary pressures will be offset by price increases, as well as cost savings in the range of $90 million to $100 million.
 
The company continues to anticipate investing $36 million to $40 million, primarily reflected in selling and administrative expense, for investments in global information technology systems and research and development facilities,
and to expand the Burts Bees international network. In addition, selling and administrative expenses are expected to reflect higher incentive compensation expense than in the prior fiscal year, and advisory costs in the first quarter related to the withdrawn proxy contest. Selling and administrative expense in fiscal year 2012 is expected to be approximately 15 percent of sales.
 
The companys fiscal year tax rate is now expected to be 32-33 percent, reflecting the first quarter tax settlement and anticipated benefits during the fiscal year.
 
The company currently plans to utilize the remaining $150 million of proceeds from the sale of its Auto Care businesses to repurchase shares, likely in the second half of the fiscal year.
 
For More Detailed Financial Information
 
Visit the Investors: Financial Results section of the companys website at
www.TheCloroxCompany.com
for the following:
Supplemental volume and sales growth information
Supplemental gross margin driver information
Reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial information, including earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)
Supplemental balance sheet and cash flow information
Supplemental price-change information
Note: Percentage and basis-point changes noted in this news release are calculated based on rounded numbers. Supplemental materials are available in the Investors: Financial Results section of the companys website at
www.TheCloroxCompany.com
.
Todays Webcast
 
Today at 10:30 a.m. Pacific time (1:30 p.m. Eastern time), Clorox will host a live audio webcast of a discussion with the investment community regarding the companys first-quarter results. The webcast can be accessed at
http://investors.thecloroxcompany.com
. Following a live discussion, a replay of the webcast will be archived for one week on the companys website.
 
The Clorox Company
 
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with 8,100 employees and fiscal year 2011 revenues of $5.2 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers' most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Green Works naturally derived home care products, Pine-Sol cleaners, Poett home care products, Fresh Step cat litter, Kingsford charcoal, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration products, Glad bags, wraps and containers, and Burts Bees natural personal care products. Nearly 90 percent of Clorox Company brands hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories. The companys products are manufactured in more than two dozen countries and marketed in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $84 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges. In fiscal year 2011 alone, the foundation awarded $4 million in cash grants, and Clorox made product donations valued at $13 million. For more information about Clorox, visit
www.TheCloroxCompany.com
.
 
Page 4 of 11
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Except for historical information, matters discussed above, including statements about future volume, sales, costs, cost savings, earnings, cash flows, plans, objectives, expectations, growth, or profitability, are forward-looking statements based on managements estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as will, could, may, expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, and variations on such words, and similar expressions, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions, subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed above. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to differ materially from managements expectations are described in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2011, as updated from time to time in the companys SEC filings. These factors include, but are not limited to: the unpredictability of the companys costs, including volatility and increases in commodity costs such as resin, diesel, chlor-alkali, sodium hypochlorite, agricultural commodities and other raw materials; increases in energy costs; the ability of the company to implement and generate expected savings from its programs to reduce costs, including its supply chain restructuring and other restructuring plans; supply disruptions or any future supply constraints that may affect key commodities or product inputs; risks inherent in relationships with suppliers, including sole-source or single-source suppliers; risks related to the handling and/or transportation of hazardous substances, including, but not limited to, chlorine; the success of the companys strategies; the ability to manage and realize the benefits of joint ventures and other cooperative relationships, including the companys joint venture regarding the companys Glad plastic bags, wraps and containers business, and the agreements relating to the provision of information technology, procure to pay and other key services by third parties; risks relating to acquisitions, mergers and divestitures, including the companys ability to achieve the updated strategic and financial benefits from the Burts Bees acquisition or the companys ability to successfully implement changes resulting from divestitures, including the sale of the global Auto Care businesses, and the costs associated therewith; risks inherent in maintaining an effective system of internal controls, including the potential impact of acquisitions or the use of third-party service providers, and the need to refine controls to adjust for accounting, financial reporting and other organizational changes or business conditions; the ability of the company to successfully manage tax, regulatory, product liability, intellectual property, environmental and other legal matters, including the risk resulting from joint and several liability for environmental contingencies and risks inherent in litigation, including class action litigation; risks related to maintaining and updating the companys information systems, including potential disruptions, costs and the ability of the company to implement adequate information systems in order to support the current business and to support the companys potential growth; the success of new products and the ability of the company to develop products that delight the consumer; consumer and customer reaction to price increases; competitive actions; risks related to customer concentration; customer-specific ordering patterns and trends; risks arising out of natural disasters; the impact of disease outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics on the companys, suppliers or customers operations; changes in the companys tax rate; continuing unfavorable worldwide general economic and marketplace conditions and events, including consumer confidence and consumer spending levels, the rate of economic growth, the rate of inflation or deflation, and the financial condition of the companys customers, suppliers and service providers; foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; unfavorable political conditions in international markets and risks relating to international operations; the impact of the volatility of the debt markets on the companys cost of borrowing and access to funds, including commercial paper and its credit facility; risks relating to changes in the companys capital structure, including risks related to the companys ability to execute its share repurchase plans and the impact thereof on the companys capital structure and earnings per share; the need for any unanticipated restructuring or asset-impairment charges; risks arising from decreases in cash flow, whether resulting from declining sales, higher cost levels, tax payments, debt payments, share repurchases, interest cost increases greater than managements expectations, or increases in debt or changes in credit ratings, or otherwise; potential costs in the event of stockholder activism; and the companys ability to maintain its business reputation and the reputation of its brands. 
 
Page 5 of 11
 
 
The companys forward-looking statements in this press release are based on managements current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
This press release contains non-GAAP financial information relating to diluted EPS, sales growth and gross margin. Included below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP).
 
The company has disclosed information related to diluted EPS, sales and gross margin on a non-GAAP basis to supplement its condensed consolidated statements of earnings presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items that are included in the companys EPS, sales and gross margin reported in accordance with GAAP, including:
Charges associated with simplification of the companys supply chain and other restructuring-related charges.
The impact of foreign exchange and foreign currency transactions.
Advisory fees related to a withdrawn proxy contest
Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful additional information to investors about current trends in the companys operations and are useful for period over period comparisons of operations. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measures. In addition, these non-GAAP measures may not be the same as similar measures provided by other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded. They should only be read in connection with the companys condensed consolidated statements of earnings presented in accordance with GAAP.
 
See Below for These Unaudited First-Quarter Results:
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Reportable Segment Information and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
Reconciliation of First-Quarter 2012 Sales Growth, Gross Margin and Diluted EPS
Media Relations
 
Dan Staublin 510-271-1622,
dan.staublin@clorox.com
 
Kathryn Caulfield 510-271-7209,
kathryn.caulfield@clorox.com
 
Investor Relations
 
Lisah Burhan (510) 271-3269,
lisah.burhan@clorox.com
 
Steve Austenfeld 510-271-2270,
steve.austenfeld@clorox.com
 
For recent presentations made by company management and other investor materials, visit
http://investors.thecloroxcompany.com/events.cfm
.
 
Page 6 of 11
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Unaudited)
Dollars in millions, except per share amounts
 
 
Page 7 of 11
 
 
Reportable Segment Information (Unaudited)
Dollars in millions
 
Page 8 of 11
 
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
Dollars in millions
 
Page 9 of 11
 
 
The tables below present the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other supplemental information. See Non-GAAP Financial Information above for further information regarding the companys use of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
First-Quarter Sales Growth Reconciliation
 
First-Quarter Gross Margin Reconciliation
 
 
Page 10 of 11
 
 
First-Quarter Diluted EPS Reconciliation
 
 
Page 11 of 11
 

Supplemental
Information
Volume
Growth
Supplemental
Information
Sales
Growth
 
 
Earnings (Losses) From Continuing Operations Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT), Earnings (Losses) From Continuing Operations Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA)
(1)
 
Reconciliation of earnings (losses) from continuing operations before income taxes to EBIT and EBITDA
 
Dollars in millions and percentages based on rounded numbers
 
 
 
Working Capital Update
 
Receivables
decreased primarily due to the sale of the Auto Businesses in Q2 FY11.
Inventories
increased primarily due to inventory builds for current year product launches and an increase in commodity costs.
Account payable
decrease primarily due to the sale of the Auto businesses in Q2 FY11.
 
Capital expenditures
for the first quarter were $37 million.
 
Depreciation and amortization
for the first quarter was $46 million.
 
Cash provided by continuing operations
in the first quarter increased to $131 million from $126 million in the year-ago quarter. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to a discretionary pension contribution of $15 million in the year-ago quarter, partially offset by lower earnings in the current period.
 
 
Supplemental
Information
Gross
Margin
Drivers
 
The table below
provides
details on the drivers of the gross
margin
change
versus the prior year.
 
 
U.S. Pricing Actions from CY2008 - CY2011
 
 
Notes:
Individual SKUs vary within the range.
This communication reflects pricing actions on primary items.


