FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20110726165243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
X
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
O
n July 26, 2011, The Clorox Company (the Company) issued a press release relating
to the revised unsolicited, conditional proposal to acquire the Company, received on July
20, 2011, from Icahn Enterprises L.P. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as
Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

  
Clorox Board of Directors Unanimously Concludes Icahns Revised Proposal Is Inadequate and Not in the Best Interest of Stockholders
 
OAKLAND, Calif., July 26, 2011 
The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX) today announced that the companys board of directors, in consultation with its independent legal and financial advisers, has unanimously determined that the revised unsolicited, conditional proposal to acquire Clorox, received on July 20, 2011, from Icahn Enterprises L.P. (Icahn), substantially undervalues the company and is not credible.
 
The board reiterated that it is committed to continued stockholder value creation and regularly evaluates opportunities given the dynamic nature of the companys industry. The board remains open to considering any credible plan to create significant stockholder value.
 
Our board has carefully considered Mr. Icahns revised proposal and concluded that it is inadequate and unlikely to be completed, said Lead Director Gary Michael. The board also believes Mr. Icahns revised proposal lacks detail and contains significant conditionality.
 
The board believes that a credible proposal must deliver compelling value and certainty. A credible proposal includes, among other things, a fully underwritten debt commitment and clearly identified and adequate equity capital that in the aggregate would be sufficient to complete a transaction. In addition, a credible proposal should contain sufficient detail to demonstrate that it provides market-standard provisions that assure certainty of completion.
 
Mr. Michael continued, Our board believes that continuing to implement the companys centennial strategy is the best path to deliver value to stockholders. Evidence that this strategy is providing significant value includes that Cloroxs three-year total stockholder return was 43 percent versus 10 percent for the S&P 500 and 34 percent for our comprehensive consumer packaged goods peer group, Clorox has returned more than $2.6 billion in cash to stockholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases since fiscal year 2006, and the company has doubled the dividend from $1.20 to $2.40 per diluted share in the past five years.
1
2
 
Clorox has leading brands that are well-positioned in their categories and continuing to gain market share, said Chairman and CEO Don Knauss. On an all-outlet retail basis, Cloroxs U.S. brands have gained significantly more market share than any other branded consumer products company, or private label, in our categories over the last three years.
3
 
 
Page 1 of 4
 
 
The text of the response letter sent to Mr. Icahn is set forth below:
 
Dear Mr. Icahn:
 
I am writing in response to your revised July 20, 2011, proposal.
 
Our board of directors, in consultation with our independent legal and financial advisers, has met and thoroughly evaluated your revised proposal. The board unanimously concluded the proposal substantially undervalues Clorox and is not credible.
 
In making this determination, the board noted that your proposal lacks detail and contains significant conditionality.
 
Our board believes that a credible proposal must deliver compelling value and certainty, and includes, among other things, a fully underwritten debt commitment and clearly identified and adequate equity capital that in the aggregate would be sufficient to complete a transaction. In addition, a credible proposal should contain sufficient detail to demonstrate that it provides market-standard provisions that assure certainty of completion.
 
Our board is committed to continued stockholder value creation and regularly evaluates opportunities given the dynamic nature of our industry.
 
We are always interested in the views and opinions of our stockholders, and our board remains open to considering any credible plan to create significant stockholder value.
 
We are confident our centennial strategy, including our focus on consumer megatrends and returning excess cash to stockholders, is the right path to continue creating superior value for our stockholders.
 
    
Sincerely yours,
 
/s/ Don Knauss
    
 
Donald R. Knauss
    
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC are serving as financial advisers, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is legal adviser.
 
The Clorox Company
 
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer products with 8,300 employees and fiscal year 2010 revenues of $5.2 billion. Clorox markets some of consumers' most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Green Works naturally derived home care products, Pine-Sol cleaners, Poett home care products, Fresh Step cat litter, Kingsford charcoal, Hidden Valley and K C Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration products, Glad bags and wraps and containers, and Burts Bees natural personal care products. Nearly 90 percent of Clorox Company brands hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories. The companys products are manufactured in more than two dozen countries and sold in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $80 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges. In fiscal year 2010 alone, the foundation awarded $3.5 million in cash grants, and Clorox made product donations valued at $8.8 million. For more information about Clorox, visit www.TheCloroxCompany.com.
 
Page 2 of 4
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Except for historical information, matters discussed in this press release, including any statements about future results, stockholder value, volume, sales, costs, cost savings, earnings, cash flows, plans, objectives, expectations, growth, or profitability, are forward-looking statements based on managements estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as will, could, may, expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, path, continue and variations on such words, and similar expressions, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions, subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this press release. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to differ materially from managements expectations are described in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, as updated from time to time in the companys SEC filings. These factors include, but are not limited to: the companys costs, including volatility and increases in commodity costs such as resin, diesel, chlor-alkali, sodium hypochlorite, agricultural commodities and other raw materials; the ability of the company to implement and generate expected savings from its programs to reduce costs; the success of the companys strategies; risks relating to acquisitions, mergers, divestitures and joint ventures; the ability of the company to successfully manage risks inherent in litigation; the success of new products and the ability of the company to develop products that delight the consumer; consumer and customer reaction to price increases; competitive actions; unfavorable worldwide general economic and marketplace conditions and events; unfavorable political conditions in international markets and risks relating to international operations; risks relating to changes in the companys capital structure, including risks related to the companys ability to execute on share repurchase plans and the impact thereof on the companys capital structure and earnings per share; risks arising from decreases in cash flow, whether resulting from declining sales, higher cost levels, tax payments, debt payments, share repurchases, interest cost increases greater than managements expectations, or increases in debt or changes in credit ratings, or otherwise; business disruptions, costs and future events related to the unsolicited, conditional proposal made by Icahn; and the companys ability to maintain its business reputation and the reputation of its brands.
 
The companys forward-looking statements in this press release are based on managements current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws.
 
Important Additional Information
 
The Clorox Company (Clorox), its directors and certain of its executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Clorox stockholders in connection with the matters to be considered at Cloroxs 2011 Annual Meeting. Clorox intends to file a proxy statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) in connection with any such solicitation of proxies from Clorox stockholders. CLOROX STOCKHOLDERS ARE STRONGLY ENCOURAGED TO READ ANY SUCH PROXY STATEMENT AND ACCOMPANYING PROXY CARD WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE AS THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Information regarding the identity of potential participants, and their direct or indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be set forth in the proxy statement and other materials to be filed with the SEC in connection with Cloroxs 2011 Annual Meeting. This information can also be found in Cloroxs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010, filed with the SEC on August 26, 2010, and in Cloroxs proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting, filed with the SEC on October 1, 2010. To the extent holdings of Clorox securities have changed since the amounts printed in the proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting, such changes have been or will be reflected on Statements of Change in Ownership on Form 4 filed with the SEC. Stockholders will be able to obtain any proxy statement, any amendments or supplements to the proxy statement and other documents filed by Clorox with the SEC for no charge at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Copies will also be available at no charge at Cloroxs website at www.thecloroxcompany.com or by writing to Clorox at 1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612.
 
Page 3 of 4
 
 
Contacts
 
Media Relations
Kathryn Caulfield (510) 271-7209, kathryn.caulfield@clorox.com Dan Staublin (510) 271-1622, dan.staublin@clorox.com
 
Joele Frank / Andrew Siegel / Andi Rose
Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher (212) 355-4449
 
Investor Relations
Steve Austenfeld (510) 271-2270, steve.austenfeld@clorox.com Li-Mei Johnson (510) 271-3396, li-mei.johnson@clorox.com
 
Page 4 of 4
 


