FILE:CLX/CLX-8K-20121030084522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On October 25, 2012, Lawrence S. "Larry" Peiros, the Executive Vice President  Chief Operating Officer of The Clorox Company (the "Company") provided notice of his intention to retire on April 1, 2013, following 32 years of service with the Company.
(b)
On October 30, 2012, the Company issued a press release, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, announcing that it will move to a structure with two Chief Operating Officers, Benno Dorer and George Roeth.
(c)
Mr. Dorer, 48, will be promoted to Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer  Cleaning, International & Corporate Strategy effective January 1, 2013. In this role, Mr. Dorer will have responsibility for the Laundry, Home Care and International business units as well as take on responsibility for corporate strategy and growth. Mr. Dorer has been Senior Vice President  Cleaning Division & Canada since March 2011. He served as Senior Vice President  General Manager, Cleaning Division from June 2009 to March 2011. From October 2007 through May 2009, he held the title of Vice President  General Manager, Cleaning Division. He previously held the position of Vice President  General Manager, Household Division from March 2007 to October 2007. Mr. Dorer joined the Company in January 2005 as Vice President  General Manager, Glad products and served in that position to March 2007. Prior to joining Clorox, he worked for 14 years at Procter & Gamble, where he held marketing positions across a wide range of categories.
Mr. Roeth, 51, will be promoted to Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer  Household & Lifestyle effective January 1, 2013. In this role, Mr. Roeth will have responsibility for the Charcoal, Glad, Litter, Food, Brita and Burt's Bees business units. He will also have responsibility for the Marketing, Sales, Product Supply and Research & Development functions. Mr. Roeth has been Senior Vice President  General Manager, Specialty Division, since June 2009. He held the title of Vice President  General Manager, Specialty Division from February 2007 through May 2009. Mr. Roeth joined Clorox in 1987 as a brand assistant in the marketing organization and subsequently held marketing and operating positions of increasing responsibility.
The compensation for Mr. Dorer and Mr. Roeth in their new roles has not yet been determined.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
     

Clorox EVP
COO Larry Peiros to Retire;
Benno Dorer and George Roeth Named to EVP
COO Roles
OAKLAND, Calif., Oct. 30, 2012 
The Clorox Company (NYSE:CLX) today announced the following changes:
Executive Vice President  Chief Operating Officer (COO)
Lawrence S. "Larry" Peiros
, 57, has announced his retirement from the company effective April 1, 2013. Peiros, who joined Clorox in 1980 as a summer intern, was appointed a member of the company's executive committee in 1999 and to the COO role in 2007. In addition to his current role having overall responsibility for the company's businesses, he also oversees the Marketing, Sales, Research & Development and Product Supply functions as well as Clorox's Eco Office.
"Larry's influence and leadership have been profound," said Chairman and CEO Don Knauss. "He strongly led our businesses and core functions, helping to grow sales and market share over a multiyear period. Throughout his 32 years, Larry has been selfless in driving the success of the business and the organization. We are indebted to him for his many contributions and wish him the very best."
"Few have been so fortunate to work with such a great company and such a great group of people for so many years. It has been a great ride!" Peiros said. "I will always bleed Clorox blue,' but this is the right time for me to pass the baton to a new group of terrific Clorox leaders."
Effective Jan. 1, 2013, the company will move to a structure with two chief operating officers and the following leaders have been named to new positions, accordingly.
Benno Dorer
, 48, currently senior vice president  Cleaning division & Canada, will be promoted to executive vice president & chief operating officer  Cleaning, International and Corporate Strategy. As such, Dorer will have responsibility for the Laundry, Home Care and International business units as well as take on responsibility for corporate strategy and growth.
George Roeth
, 51, currently senior vice president  Specialty division, will be promoted to executive vice president & chief operating officer  Household and Lifestyle. Roeth will have responsibility for the Charcoal, Glad, Litter, Food, Brita and Burt's Bees business units. He will also have responsibility for the company's core functions: Marketing, Sales, Product Supply and Research & Development.
Commenting on these promotions, Knauss said, "The board and executive management team's robust succession planning has enabled us to appoint strong leaders to these roles, and will enable a smooth transition while maintaining the strong governance structure of the company.
"In his nearly eight years at Clorox, Benno has led a number of Clorox businesses and has had a strong impact on several corporate initiatives and capabilities. He helped create the Glad Joint Venture with Procter & Gamble and led the Glad business to significant increases in revenue, profit and market share through strategic focus, a shift toward premium products and cost savings. He has led the Home Care business to sustained economic profit growth and record-high market shares over multiple years through strategic reorientation, disciplined portfolio management and effective supply chain transformation. Prior to Clorox, he spent 14 years with P&G, where he held marketing positions across a broad range of businesses worldwide.
"During his 25 years of service, George has led the company's global Marketing functions, the Growth & Strategy office in addition to his past eight years successfully leading several of our businesses. With his marketing and general management roles, he has worked on nearly every business across the company. As general manager of the Specialty division, George has led sustained and rapid share growth of the Hidden Valley and Kingsford franchises through disciplined strategies and integrated demand-building capabilities. He worked in partnership with Product Supply and R&D to modernize the Glad manufacturing platform to lower costs and accelerate innovation while delivering improved sales and profit growth."
Photos of and additional biographical information on these Clorox leaders are available at
http://www.thecloroxcompany.com/company/executive-team/
Page 1 of 2
The Clorox Company
The Clorox Company is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional products with approximately 8,400 employees and fiscal year 2012 revenues of $5.5 billion. Clorox markets some of the most trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products, Clorox Healthcare, HealthLink, Aplicare and Dispatch products, Green Works naturally derived home care products, Pine-Sol cleaners, Poett home care products, Fresh Step cat litter, Glad bags, wraps and containers, Kingsford charcoal, Hidden Valley and KC Masterpiece dressings and sauces, Brita water-filtration products, and Burt's Bees and gud natural personal care products. Nearly 90 percent of the company's brands hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories. The company's products are manufactured in more than two dozen countries and marketed in more than 100 countries. Clorox is committed to making a positive difference in the communities where its employees work and live. Founded in 1980, The Clorox Company Foundation has awarded cash grants totaling more than $87 million to nonprofit organizations, schools and colleges. In fiscal year 2012 alone, the foundation awarded $3.5 million in cash grants, and Clorox made product donations valued at $15 million. For more information about Clorox, visit TheCloroxCompany.com.
Media Relations:
Kathryn Caulfield (510) 271-7209, kathryn.caulfield@clorox.com; Aileen Zerrudo (510) 271-3075, aileen.zerrudo@clorox.com
Investor Relations:
Steve Austenfeld (510) 271-2270, steve.austenfeld@clorox.com ; Lisah Burhan (510) 271-3269, lisah.burhan@clorox.com
Page 2 of 2


