FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20040416155017.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
.    .
Item 7
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.    .
Item 12
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
        On April 14, 2004, Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing the Company's first quarter financial results for the financial period ended March 28, 2004. A copy of the Press Release is being furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit
Number

Financial Contact:   Patrick Davidson (414) 343-8002 Media Contact:  Kathleen Lawler (414) 343-4587
HARLEY-DAVIDSON ROARS INTO ITS SECOND CENTURY WITH ANOTHER RECORD QUARTER
Milwaukee, Wis., April 14, 2004  Harley-Davidson, Inc. (NYSE: HDI) today announced record revenue and earnings for its first quarter ended March 28, 2004. Revenue for the quarter was $1.17 billion compared with $1.11 billion in the year-ago quarter, a 4.7 percent increase. First quarter diluted earnings per share (EPS) was 68 cents, an 11.5 percent increase compared with last year's 61 cents.
"Harley-Davidson's first quarter performance clearly demonstrates that the Company is on track to deliver both the short and long-term performance objectives which we established earlier this year," said Jeffrey L. Bleustein, chairman and chief executive officer of Harley-Davidson, Inc.
"By almost any measure, we are off to a very strong start in 2004 continuing the momentum of our 100th Anniversary. We delivered solid financial performance this quarter, and our U.S. dealer network posted the highest first quarter retail sales for Harley-Davidson motorcycles in its history - 13 percent ahead of last year. In addition, we achieved our first quarter motorcycle production target, setting the pace to reach our goal of 317,000 Harley-Davidson motorcycles by year-end."
"The Company's continuing strong performance supports our longer-range objectives to satisfy demand for 400,000 Harley-Davidson motorcycles in 2007 and to deliver an annual earnings growth rate in the mid-teens. Harley-Davidson's Board of Directors demonstrated their confidence in our stated direction by approving the repurchase of 7.8 million shares of stock during the quarter," said Bleustein.
Motorcycles and Related Products Segment
First quarter revenue from Harley-Davidson(R) motorcycles was $919 million, an increase of 4.8 percent over the first quarter last year. Shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles totaled 74,090, up 3,482 units or 4.9 percent over last year.
First quarter revenue from Parts and Accessories (P&A), which consists of Genuine Motor Parts(TM) and Genuine Motor Accessories(TM), totaled $169 million, a 5.8 percent increase over the year-ago quarter. When revenue from 100th Anniversary P&A products sold during the first quarter of 2003 is excluded, P&A revenue would have been up 15.9 percent. For the longer term, the Company expects P&A revenue to grow at a rate slightly faster than the motorcycle unit growth rate.
General Merchandise, which consists of MotorClothes(R) apparel and collectibles, had first quarter revenue of $54 million, down 3.7 percent over the same period last year. When revenue from 100th Anniversary General Merchandise products shipped in the first quarter of 2003 is excluded, General Merchandise revenue would have been up 12.7 percent. For the longer term, the Company expects General Merchandise to grow at a rate lower than the motorcycle unit growth rate.
First quarter gross margin for the Motorcycles and Related Products Segment was 37.8 percent of revenue compared to 36.2 percent in the first quarter of last year. First quarter gross margin was favorably impacted primarily by foreign currency exchange rates and to a lesser extent by operating efficiencies. Consistent with the higher gross margin, operating margin increased from 21.5 percent in 2003 to 22.9 percent in 2004.
Motorcycle Retail Sales Data
Harley-Davidson retail motorcycle sales for the quarter were up 11.6 percent worldwide driven by strong performance in the U.S. which was up 13.0 percent. Data is listed in the accompanying tables.
Financial Services Segment
Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc. (HDFS), a subsidiary of Harley-Davidson, Inc., reported operating income of $50 million, up $7 million compared to the year-ago quarter, or 16.0 percent. The subsidiary continued to experience strong customer acceptance of its finance and insurance products.
HDFS sold $625 million in retail motorcycle loans during the quarter and recorded a gain of $25.2 million. This compares with a gain of $26.4 million on $550 million of loans securitized during the first quarter of 2003. The gain as a percentage of loans sold is within management's expectations of 3 to 4 percent in the current interest rate environment.
Annualized credit losses on a managed portfolio basis decreased during the quarter from 0.84 percent in 2003 to 0.77 percent in 2004.
For the longer term, the Company expects the HDFS operating income growth rate to be slightly higher than the Company's motorcycle unit growth rate.
Cash Flow
Operations generated cash of more than $350 million during the quarter. The Company invested $31 million in capital expenditures, paid a dividend of $24 million and repurchased 7.8 million shares of its common stock for a total cost of $404 million.
Company Background
Harley-Davidson, Inc. is the parent company for the group of companies doing business as Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Buell Motorcycle Company and Harley-Davidson Financial Services. Harley-Davidson Motor Company, the only major U.S.-based motorcycle manufacturer, produces heavyweight motorcycles and offers a complete line of motorcycle parts, accessories, apparel, and general merchandise. Buell Motorcycle Company produces sport motorcycles. Harley-Davidson Financial Services provides wholesale and retail financing and insurance programs to Harley-Davidson dealers and customers.
Forward-Looking Statements
The Company intends that certain matters discussed in this release are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified as such because the context of the statement will include words such as the Company "believes," "anticipates," "expects" or "estimates" or words of similar meaning. Similarly, statements that describe future plans, objectives, outlooks, targets or goals are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated as of the date of this release. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described below. Shareholders, potential investors, and other readers are urged to consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements and cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this release are only made as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The Company's ability to meet the targets and expectations noted depends upon, among other factors, the Company's ability to (i) continue to realize production efficiencies at its production facilities through the implementation of innovative manufacturing techniques and other means, (ii) successfully implement production capacity increases in its facilities, (iii) successfully introduce new products and services, (iv) avoid unexpected P&A /general merchandise supplier backorders, (v) sell all of the Harley-Davidson motorcycles it plans to produce, (vi) continue to develop the capacity of its distributor and dealer network, (vii) avoid unexpected changes in the regulatory environment for its products, (viii) successfully adjust to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, (ix) successfully adjust to interest rate fluctuations, and (x) successfully manage changes in the credit quality of HDFS's loan portfolio.
In addition, the Company could experience delays in the operation of manufacturing facilities as a result of work stoppages, difficulty with suppliers, natural causes, terrorism or other factors. Risk factors are also disclosed in documents previously filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Only Harley-Davidson motorcycles are included in the Harley-Davidson (H-D) data.
Industry data for Europe includes sales in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
Data Sources: (subject to update) United States: Motorcycle Industry Council, Europe: Company reports, Giral S.A. Japan: Company reports, Industry sources


