FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20041123145416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
. .
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
        Effective November 18, 2004, the board of directors of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "") voted to increase the size of the Company's board from eight persons to nine persons and to elect Judson C. Green as a new director to fill the vacancy created by such increase. Mr. Green will serve in the class of directors with a term expiring at the Company's 2007 annual meeting of shareholders.
Company
        Mr. Green has been the President and Chief Executive Officer of NAVTEQ Corporation, a leading provider of comprehensive digital map information for automotive navigation systems, mobile navigation devices and Internet-based mapping applications, since May 2000. Prior to joining NAVTEQ Corporation, Mr. Green was the President of Walt Disney Attractions, the theme park and resort segment of The Walt Disney Company, from August 1991 through December 1998, and Chairman from December 1998 through April 2000.
. .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit
Number
(99.1)     Press Release of Harley-Davidson, Inc., dated November 22, 2004.

Financial Contact:    Patrick Davidson (414) 343-8002 Media Contact:         Kathleen Lawler (414) 343-4587
        Milwaukee, Wis., Nov 22, 2004  Harley-Davidson, Inc. (NYSE: HDI) today announced the election of Judson C. Green to the Company's Board of Directors, effective Nov. 18, 2004. Green is President and Chief Executive Officer of NAVTEQ Corporation (NYSE: NVT).
        "Judson brings a wealth of experience that will be of tremendous value to Harley-Davidson as the Company pursues its growth goals," said Harley-Davidson Director Barry K. Allen, Chairman of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. "We know that shareholders will benefit from his unique insights and we welcome him to the Board."
        NAVTEQ is the world's leading developer and supplier of digital map information for navigation systems, including those used in the automotive industry. Prior to assuming the leadership of NAVTEQ in 2000, Green was Chairman of Walt Disney Attractions, the theme park and resort segment of The Walt Disney Company, and also had served as Chief Financial Officer of The Walt Disney Company. He previously worked as a CPA for Arthur Young and Co. Green holds an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and a bachelor's degree in economics from DePauw University. He serves on the boards of Conservation International and The Field Museum of Chicago, as well as the boards of both his alma maters.
        "Our focus at Harley-Davidson is on delighting customers and delivering total customer experiences," said Harley-Davidson, Inc. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey L. Bleustein. "Judson's background makes him exceptionally well-suited to contribute in key ways to this focus."
        Green's election by Board action to a term expiring in 2007 expands the Harley-Davidson Board to nine Directors. Other board members are: Allen, Executive Vice President, Operations, Qwest Communications International Inc.; Richard I. Beattie, Chairman, Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett L.L.P.; Bleustein; George H. Conrades, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Akamai Technologies, Inc.; Donald A. James, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and co-founder, Fred Deeley Imports Ltd.; Sara L. Levinson, President, Women's Group of Rodale, Inc.; George L. Miles, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer, WQED Multimedia; and James A. Norling, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd.
        Harley-Davidson, Inc. is the parent company for the group of companies doing business as Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Buell Motorcycle Company and Harley-Davidson Financial Services. Harley-Davidson Motor Company, the only major U.S.-based motorcycle manufacturer, produces heavyweight motorcycles and offers a complete line of motorcycle parts, accessories, apparel, and general merchandise. Buell Motorcycle Company produces sport motorcycles. Harley-Davidson Financial Services provides wholesale and retail financing and insurance programs to Harley-Davidson dealers and customers.


