FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20041013173710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
.    .
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
        On October 13, 2004, Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing the Company's third quarter financial results for the financial period ended September 26, 2004. A copy of the Press Release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
.    .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit
Number

Financial Contact: Patrick Davidson (414) 343-8002
Media Contact: Kathleen Lawler (414) 343-4587
HARLEY-DAVIDSON, INC. REPORTS RECORD THIRD QUARTER
Milwaukee, Wis., October 13, 2004  Harley-Davidson, Inc. (NYSE: HDI) today announced record earnings for its third quarter ended September 26, 2004. Third quarter diluted earnings per share (EPS) were 77 cents, a 24.2 percent increase compared with last year's 62 cents. Revenue for the quarter was $1.30 billion, which compares to $1.13 billion in the year-ago quarter.
"We are pleased to report that Harley-Davidson has once again produced record revenue and earnings for the quarter," said Jeffrey L. Bleustein, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Harley-Davidson, Inc. "Our financial results for the first nine months of the year position us to deliver another record year and are in line with our previously stated long-term targets."
"Retail sales of Harley-Davidson(R) motorcycles in the U.S. are up 7.1 percent on a year-to-date basis through September. As expected, third quarter retail sales were down compared with last year's third quarter. In 2003, our dealers had a phenomenal third quarter as our 100th Anniversary celebration drove motorcycle sales up 27 percent versus the prior year's performance," added Bleustein.
"We are enthusiastic about the reception of our recently introduced 2005 model year motorcycles, in particular the new Softail(R) Deluxe, the Screamin' Eagle(R) Custom Vehicles, the Sportster(R) 883 Low, and the redesigned Softail(R) Springer(R) Classic. Looking ahead to 2005, we expect demand for Harley-Davidson motorcycles to continue to grow and support a wholesale unit target of 339,000 motorcycles, which represents a 7 percent increase over this year's target," said Bleustein.
Motorcycles and Related Products Segment  Third Quarter Results
Third quarter revenue from Harley-Davidson motorcycles was $996.6 million, an increase of $152.3 million or 18.0 percent over last year. Worldwide shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the third quarter totaled 80,578 units, consistent with the Company's previously announced target of 80,500. The Company's 2004 shipment target for Harley-Davidson motorcycles remains 317,000 units.
Third quarter revenue from Parts & Accessories (P&A), which consists of Genuine Motor Parts and Genuine Motor Accessories, totaled $224.4 million. This is an 8.0 percent increase, or $16.6 million more than the same quarter a year-ago.
Third quarter revenue from General Merchandise, which consists of MotorClothes(R) apparel and collectibles, totaled $61.4 million, up 1.4 percent or $0.8 million over the same period last year.
Growth rates for P&A and General Merchandise fluctuate from quarter to quarter. However, for the long term the Company expects the growth rate for P&A revenue to be slightly higher than Harley-Davidson's motorcycle unit growth rate, and the General Merchandise revenue growth rate is expected to be lower than the motorcycle unit growth rate.
Third quarter gross margin improved to 38.0 percent of revenue in 2004 compared to 35.6 percent of revenue in 2003. The increase in margin was primarily driven by a combination of foreign currency exchange rates, the full integration of the new Softail Plant in York, Pennsylvania and other operational efficiencies. Consistent with the higher gross margin, operating margin increased from 21.3 percent in 2003 to 23.6 percent in 2004.
Motorcycle Retail Data
"U.S. Harley-Davidson motorcycle retail sales for the third quarter were down 9.8 percent versus the same period last year, which was the largest retail sales quarter ever. Standing up to the challenge, our dealers recorded the second largest third quarter in Company history this year, even with the adverse weather-related issues that have plagued the Southeast during much of that time," said Bleustein. Retail sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the United States were up 7.1 percent for the period January through September 2004 when compared to the same period last year.
In markets outside the U.S., retail sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down slightly during the first nine months of 2004, declining 0.9 percent or 400 units from the same period last year. While retail sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles are growing in many of the Company's international markets, dealers in select markets have seen decreases due to difficult economic and market conditions. Harley-Davidson retail motorcycle sales were down 5.1 percent in Europe, due largely to weakness in the German economy, and down 10.2 percent in Japan.
Data is listed in the accompanying tables.
Financial Services Segment
Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc. (HDFS) reported third quarter operating income of $50.1 million, up 8.4 percent from $46.2 million in the year-ago quarter. The segment's performance was driven by continued strong marketplace acceptance of its finance and insurance products.
The Company's third quarter securitization of $625 million of motorcycle retail loans resulted in a gain of $13.8 million during the third quarter of 2004. The gain as a percentage of loans securitized was 2.2 percent, in line with the Company's previously stated guidance of 2.0 to 2.5 percent in the current competitive market and interest rate environment.
Annualized credit losses on a managed portfolio basis decreased during the first nine months of the year from 0.73 percent in 2003 to 0.69 percent in 2004.
Over the long term, the Company expects the HDFS growth rate in operating income to be slightly higher than the Company's motorcycle unit growth rate.
Harley-Davidson, Inc.  Nine Month Results
For the nine month period in 2004, revenue totaled $3.79 billion, a 9.5 percent increase over the year-ago period. Diluted earnings per share were $2.29, an increase of 20.5 percent compared to the same period last year.
Through the first nine months of this year, shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles were 236,702, a 10.6 percent increase over last year's 214,091. Harley-Davidson motorcycle revenue was $2.94 billion, a 9.7 percent increase over $2.68 billion in revenue in 2003. P&A revenue totaled $623.7 million, a 9.1 percent increase over last year's $571.8 million. General Merchandise revenue totaled $168.8 million, a 5.1 percent increase compared with $160.7 million during the same period in 2003.
HDFS operating income was $149.4 million, an 11.5 percent increase compared with $134.0 million during last year's first nine months.
Cash Flow  Nine Month Results
Operations generated cash of $956.9 million. The Company invested $109.9 million in capital expenditures, declared dividends of $82.4 million and repurchased 10.6 million shares at a cost of $564.1 million.
Company Background
Harley-Davidson, Inc. is the parent company for the group of companies doing business as Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Buell Motorcycle Company and Harley-Davidson Financial Services. Harley-Davidson Motor Company, the only major U.S.-based motorcycle manufacturer, produces heavyweight motorcycles and offers a complete line of motorcycle parts, accessories, apparel, and general merchandise. Buell Motorcycle Company produces sport motorcycles. Harley-Davidson Financial Services provides wholesale and retail financing and insurance programs to Harley-Davidson dealers and customers.
Forward-Looking Statements
The Company intends that certain matters discussed in this release are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified as such because the context of the statement will include words such as the Company "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "plans," or "estimates" or words of similar meaning. Similarly, statements that describe future plans, objectives, outlooks, targets or goals are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated as of the date of this release. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described below. Shareholders, potential investors, and other readers are urged to consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements and cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this release are only made as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
The Company's ability to meet the targets and expectations noted depends upon, among other factors, the Company's ability to (i) continue to realize production efficiencies at its production facilities through the implementation of innovative manufacturing techniques and other means, (ii) successfully implement production capacity increases in its facilities, (iii) successfully introduce new products and services, (iv) avoid unexpected P&A /general merchandise supplier backorders, (v) sell all of the Harley-Davidson motorcycles it plans to produce, (vi) continue to develop the capacity of its distributor and dealer network, (vii) avoid unexpected changes in the regulatory environment for its products, (viii) successfully adjust to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, (ix) successfully adjust to interest rate fluctuations, and (x) successfully manage changes in the credit quality of HDFS's loan portfolio.
In addition, the Company could experience delays in the operation of manufacturing facilities as a result of work stoppages, difficulty with suppliers, natural causes, terrorism or other factors. Risk factors are also disclosed in documents previously filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Only Harley-Davidson motorcycles are included in the Harley-Davidson (H-D) data.
Data for Europe includes registrations in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and United Kingdom.
United States: Motorcycle Industry Council Europe: Company reports, Giral S.A. Japan: Company reports, Industry sources
Data Sources: (subject to update)


