FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20050505163158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
.     
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
        On February 15, 2005, the Board of Directors (the "") of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the ") approved the Harley-Davidson, Inc. Employee Short Term Incentive Plan (the "") upon the unanimous recommendation of the Human Resources Committee of the Board. The shareholders of the Company approved the Employee STIP at the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held April 30, 2005. The Employee STIP is included as to the Company's 2005 Proxy Statement, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 22, 2005.
Board
"Company
Employee STIP
Exhibit A
        The Company will generally use the Employee STIP to provide a total compensation opportunity for its employees that includes incentive compensation dependent upon continuously improving performance. Under the Employee STIP, the Human Resources Committee of the Board (the "") is required to fix target awards and performance criteria prior to the commencement of each year or portion of a year (or such later date as may be permitted under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code). The Human Resources Committee will fix a target award for each participant at the same time that it selects the eligible employee participants in the Employee STIP. A participant's target award for the period is equal to a percentage (specified by the Human Resources Committee) multiplied by the participant's compensation. Compensation generally means the participant's base salary or wages, plus workers compensation payments. The Human Resources Committee may, at the time it grants an award, include or exclude types of compensation for purposes of determining a participant's target award. The Human Resources Committee also determines, with respect to each participant for a year or portion of a year, the performance measures that will be applied to determine the size of the participant's final performance award. If the Human Resources Committee chooses more than one performance category for any one or more participants for purposes of determining the amount of a performance award, then the Human Resources Committee gives each performance category a weight so that for each participant the total weight of all applicable performance categories equals 100%.
Human Resources Committee
        The Employee STIP does not specify target performance for the performance categories. Rather, as to each performance category that the Human Resources Committee selects as the basis for potential awards in any year or portion of a year, the Human Resources Committee also establishes a performance scale. The performance scale may be a linear scale or a step scale or a combination of the two. The Human Resources Committee must approve a scale so that, at the end of the year, a performance percentage may be objectively calculated for any given level of actual performance within that category during the year or portion of a year.
        The Human Resources Committee may also, at the time it grants an award, provide that a performance award will be reduced or eliminated depending on the performance under one or more performance categories. Performance categories that serve to reduce or eliminate a potential award may, but are not required to, be assigned a performance scale and weightings, if more than one such category is selected.
        Following the end of each year, the Human Resources Committee will calculate the performance award amount for each participant. A performance percentage is determined for each performance category based upon actual performance and the applicable performance scale. Where more than one performance category applies to a participant, the resulting percentages are reduced to reflect weighting. The resulting total percentage is applied to a participant's target award to determine a potential performance award. If any performance categories were selected that may reduce or eliminate that performance award, then the actual performance for those categories is also determined and the amount of the reduction or elimination is applied. The result is the maximum incentive performance award a participant is eligible to receive under the Employee STIP for the relevant year or portion of a year. The Human Resources Committee must approve the calculations and may, in its sole discretion, reduce the amount of any maximum performance award by up to 50%. The maximum performance award, less any reduction determined by the Human Resources Committee, equals the final performance award payable to such participant for the applicable year or portion of a year.
.      .
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
        (a)-(b) Not applicable.
        (c) On December 9, 2004, the Company issued a press release announcing that James L. Ziemer would succeed Jeffrey L. Bleustein as the Company's Chief Executive Officer upon Mr. Bleustein's retirement, effective April 30, 2005. On April 30, 2005, the Board elected Mr. Ziemer to succeed Mr. Bleustein as the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President, effective at the conclusion of the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders on April 30, 2005. Mr. Ziemer had previously been the Company's Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, positions he held for more than five years.
        On April 30, 2005, the Board elected James M. Brostowitz to succeed Mr. Ziemer as the Company's Acting Chief Financial Officer, effective at the conclusion of the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders on April 30, 2005. Mr. Brostowitz is 53 years old and is currently, and will remain, the Vice President and Treasurer of the Company, positions he has held for more than five years.
        (d) Not applicable.
.      .
Item 5.03
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
        On April 30, 2005, the Board approved amendments to the Company's By-Laws. The following summary of the amendments to the Company's By-Laws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Company's By-Laws, as amended, which is filed as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
Article I: Shareholders
Article II: Board of Directors
.     .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit
Number

Financial Contact:  Mark Van Genderen (414) 343-8002 Media Contact:  Bob Klein (414) 343-4433
Milwaukee, Wis., May 2, 2005  Harley-Davidson, Inc. (NYSE: HDI) announced today that its Board of Directors elected James L. Ziemer as its CEO, increased the dividend, and also approved an additional share repurchase authorization at the Annual Shareholder Meeting in Milwaukee on April 30, 2005. All items of business presented to shareholders were approved at the meeting.
Harley-Davidson, Inc.s Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.16 per share payable June 24, 2005, to shareholders of record as of June 14, 2005. This represents a 28 percent increase over the previous dividend paid on March 25, 2005. The Board of Directors also authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Company's stock. This authorization is in addition to the previous 20 million share repurchase authorization approved by the Board of Directors on April 24, 2004.
"Harley-Davidson's exceptional business performance has generated a strong cash flow, enabling the Company to return value to shareholders through increasing its dividend and authorizing the repurchase of additional shares of stock," said Ziemer.
During the meeting, the shareholders approved the reelection of George Conrades, Sara Levinson and George Miles as Class II Directors. The Employee Short Term Incentive Plan was also approved, and Ernst & Young, LLP was ratified as the Company's independent auditor for calendar year 2005.
Company Background
Harley-Davidson, Inc. is the parent company for the group of companies doing business as Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Buell Motorcycle Company and Harley-Davidson Financial Services. Harley-Davidson Motor Company, the only major U.S.-based motorcycle manufacturer, produces heavyweight motorcycles and offers a complete line of motorcycle parts, accessories, apparel, and general merchandise. Buell Motorcycle Company produces sport motorcycles. Harley-Davidson Financial Services provides wholesale and retail financing and insurance programs to Harley-Davidson dealers and customers.



