FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20060120171612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
.      .
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
        On January 19, 2006, Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing the Company's fourth quarter and full year financial results for the financial periods ended December 31, 2005. The Press Release included information regarding retail sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles for the full year 2005 and the full year 2004. The Company's press release for the third quarter of 2005 and prior Company disclosures also included information regarding retail sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
        To help investors better understand the retail sales information the Company has disclosed, the Company is providing the following updated information concerning year-to-date retail sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles for each calendar quarter in 2004 and 2005, which underlies the information included in the Press Release:
        The data source for all 2005 retail sales figures shown above is sales warranty and registration information provided by Harley-Davidson dealers and compiled by the Company. The Company must rely on information that its dealers supply concerning retail sales, and this information is subject to revision. 2004 retail sales figures shown above conform to sales warranty and registration information. Figures for year-to-date retail sales in the United States for each quarter of 2004 vary from Motorcycle Industry Council source data that the Company previously published, the figure for retail sales in Japan through the fourth quarter of 2004 varies from Japan Industry source data that the previously published, and the figures for year-to-date retail sales in all other markets for the first and second quarters of 2004 vary from data that the Company previously published. Generally, figures are based on sales warranty and registration information as of the close of the relevant calendar quarter.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


