FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20061215162220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        (e)   Shareholders of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "") have approved the Harley-Davidson, Inc. Amended Corporate Short Term Incentive Plan and the Harley-Davidson, Inc. Employee Short Term Incentive Plan.
Company
        On December 11, 2006, the Human Resources Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors of the Company established short term incentive criteria for 2007 for the Company's principal executive officer, the Company's principal financial officer and two others who are named executive officers of the Company identified in the Company's proxy statement for its annual meeting of shareholders held on April 29, 2006, filed on Schedule 14A with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on March 30, 2006. The two others are the Company's Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and the Company's Vice President and Treasurer. Short term incentive awards for 2007 will be based on the growth rate of earnings per share.
Committee
Commission
        The Committee also established short term incentive criteria for 2007 for approximately 8,800 employees of Harley-Davidson Motor Company, which is comprised of Harley-Davidson Motor Company Operations, Inc., Harley-Davidson Motor Company Group, Inc. and Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc. These employees include the President and Chief Operating Officer of Harley-Davidson Motor Company, who is a named executive officer of the Company identified in the Company's proxy statement for its annual meeting of shareholders held on April 29, 2006, filed on Schedule 14A with the Commission on March 30, 2006. Short term incentive awards for 2007 will be based on strategic measures (quality and retail sales) and the growth rate of earnings before interest and taxes.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


