FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20060606161635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
.      .
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
        On June 1, 2006, Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc. ("HDFS"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "Company"), and Donna F. Zarcone, HDFS' President and Chief Operating Officer, entered into an Amendment to Employment Agreement (the "Amendment"). The parties entered into the Amendment in connection with Ms. Zarcone's planned termination of employment with HDFS on August 1, 2006 in light of her decision to seek new entrepreneurial opportunities. Ms. Zarcone has agreed to work with HDFS' leadership team to ensure an orderly transition of her current responsibilities. The Amendment amends the terms of the original Employment Agreement between the parties, dated as of January 1, 2000 (the "Agreement"), which was filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999.
        The Amendment provides for the termination of the Agreement on August 1, 2006, the date of Ms. Zarcone's planned resignation. The Amendment further provides that if Ms. Zarcone remains employed by HDFS through August 1, 2006 and executes and delivers to HDFS on or before that date a standard release of claims, then the termination of Ms. Zarcone's employment will be treated as a termination of the Agreement by HDFS without cause pursuant to Section 12.4 of the Agreement. As a result, Ms. Zarcone will be entitled to the severance payment and benefits that Section 12.4 of the Agreement contemplates, including a lump sum payment of one year's base salary. The Amendment does not provide for an increase in the severance payment or benefits above what Section 12.4 of the Agreement had contemplated.
.      .
Item 1.02
Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
        The information set forth in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference into this Item 1.02.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


