FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20070810122441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        (d)     Effective August 6, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "") of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "") voted to increase the size of the Board from ten persons to eleven persons and to elect Jochen Zeitz as a new director to fill the vacancy created by such increase. Mr. Zeitz will serve as a Class II director with a term expiring at the Company's 2008 annual meeting of shareholders.
Board
Company
        In addition to electing Mr. Zeitz as a director, the Board appointed Mr. Zeitz to the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and its Human Resources Committee.
        Since 1993, Mr. Zeitz has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Puma AG, which develops and markets a broad range of sport and lifestyle products including footwear, apparel and accessories. From 1993-2005, Mr. Zeitz also served as Puma AG's Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Zeitz, who attended the European Business School, worked for Colgate-Palmolive in New York and Hamburg prior to joining Puma AG in 1990.
        The Company's Director Compensation Policy is applicable to Mr. Zeitz as a non-employee director. In connection with Mr. Zeitz's election to the Board, Mr. Zeitz will receive a portion of the current $100,000 annual retainer that the Company pays to non-employee directors, at least 50% of which will be paid in shares of the Company's common stock and/or share units pursuant to an election of Mr. Zeitz under the Company's Director Stock Plan. In addition, Mr. Zeitz will receive a grant of 1,000 share units, each representing the value of one share of the Company's common stock, pursuant to the Company's Director Stock Plan.
pro rata
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


