FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20080801151324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        (d)        Effective July 29, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "") of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "") voted to increase the size of the Board from eleven persons to twelve persons and to elect N. Thomas Linebarger as a new director to fill the vacancy created by such increase. Mr. Linebarger will serve as a Class I director with a term expiring at the Company's 2010 annual meeting of shareholders.
Board
Company
        At the time of Mr. Linebarger's election, he was not appointed to any committee of the Board, and there was no expectation concerning any such appointment.
        Effective August 1, 2008, Mr. Linebarger became President and Chief Operating Officer of Cummins Inc. (""). Mr. Linebarger had served as Executive Vice President of Cummins and President of Cummins Power Generation since 2005. Mr. Linebarger served as Cummins' Vice President and President of Cummins Power Generation from 2003 to 2005 and as Cummins' Chief Financial Officer from 2000 to 2003. Cummins designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel and natural gas engines, electric power generation systems and engine-related component products. Mr. Linebarger is also a director of Pactiv Corporation.
Cummins
        The Company's Director Compensation Policy is applicable to Mr. Linebarger as a non-employee director. In connection with Mr. Linebarger's election to the Board, Mr. Linebarger will receive a portion of the current $100,000 annual retainer that the Company pays to non-employee directors, at least 50% of which will be paid in shares of the Company's common stock and/or share units pursuant to an election of Mr. Linebarger under the Company's Director Stock Plan. In addition, Mr. Linebarger will receive a grant of 1,000 share units, each representing the value of one share of the Company's common stock, pursuant to the Company's Director Stock Plan. Mr. Linebarger will receive this compensation following his first Board meeting as a director.
pro rata
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


