FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20090505205830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 5, 2009, the Board of Directors of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "Company") elected Keith E. Wandell as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective on the commencement of his employment with the Company. At that time, the appropriate Board committees approved compensation for Mr. Wandell. On May 1, 2009, the date Mr. Wandell commenced his employment, the Human Resources Committee of the Board, pursuant to the directive of the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee, approved final terms relating to his initial equity grant of restricted stock and stock options to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock as follows: Mr. Wandell received options to purchase 227,102 shares of Common Stock with an exercise price of $21.52 per share, the fair market value of the Common Stock at the close of business on May 1, 2009, vesting at a rate of 25% per year; and Mr. Wandell received 132,807 shares of restricted stock that vest 33% after 2 years, 33% after 3 years, and 33% after 4 years. The total value of these equity grants (using a binomial lattice valuation model to calculate the present value of the options and using the fair market value of a share of Common Stock to calculate value of the restricted stock) is $4,911,000. These awards were made under the Harley-Davidson, Inc. 2009 Incentive Stock Plan, and the awards will not be subject to immediate vesting upon a change in control of the Company.
The description of the terms of the awards set forth above is qualified by reference to forms of option award and restricted stock agreements filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
Effective (the "Grant Date"), you have been granted a(n) Non-Qualified Stock Option to buy shares of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the Company) stock at per share.
<insert date>
<insert number of shares>
price
The total option price of the shares granted is .
$ amount
Shares in each period will become fully vested on the date shown:
 
These options are granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Company's 2009 Incentive Stock Plan and this Option Agreement; provided that the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined in the Plan) shall not, in and of itself, cause otherwise unvested options to become vested. Unless the Committee has exercised its discretion under Section 17(c) of the Plan to provide a result more favorable to you, whether or not the vesting of otherwise unvested options is accelerated following such Change of Control shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Transition Agreement then in effect between you and Harley-Davidson, Inc. (or, if you had been but are not then a party to a Transition Agreement, the provisions of the Transition Agreement that would have applied if the last such Transition Agreement to which you were a party had continued).
You may return this Option Agreement to the Company (in care of the Vice President and Treasurer) within thirty (30) days after the Grant Date, and by doing so you will forfeit any rights under this Option Agreement. If you choose to retain this Option Agreement beyond that date, then you accept the terms of these options and agree and consent to all amendments to the Plan and the Company's 1995 Stock Option Plan and 2004 Incentive Stock Plan through the Grant Date as they apply to these options and any prior awards to you under such plans.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
Effective (the "Grant Date"), you have been granted shares of Common Stock of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "Company") constituting Restricted Stock under the Company's 2009 Incentive Stock Plan (the "Plan").
<insert date>
<insert number of shares>
Subject to accelerated vesting and forfeiture as described in Exhibit A, a portion of the Restricted Stock (Restricted Stock with the same scheduled vesting date is referred to as a "Tranche") shall become fully unrestricted (or "vest") in accordance with the following schedule:
 
If application of the above schedule on the second and third anniversaries of the Grant Date would produce vesting in a fraction of a Share of Restricted Stock, then the number of Shares of Restricted Stock that become vested on that anniversary date shall be rounded down to the next lower whole number of Shares of Restricted Stock, and the fractional Share shall be carried forward into the next Tranche of Restricted Stock.
You may not sell, transfer or otherwise convey an interest in or pledge any of your Shares of Restricted Stock until they are vested. In addition, (i) you cannot sell or otherwise dispose of any Restricted Stock that has vested except pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 and any applicable state securities laws or in a transaction that, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, is exempt from such registration and (ii) the Company may place a legend on any certificates for such Shares to such effect.
The Shares of Restricted Stock are granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Restricted Stock Agreement including Exhibit A. Additional provisions regarding your Restricted Stock and definitions of capitalized terms used and not defined in this Restricted Stock Agreement can be found in the Plan. Without limitation, "Committee" means the Human Resources Committee of the Board or its delegate in accordance with the Plan.
 
If your employment with the Company and its Affiliates is terminated for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, then you will forfeit any Shares of Restricted Stock that are not vested as of the date your employment is terminated. If you cease to be employed by the Company and its Affiliates by reason of death, Disability or Retirement, then, effective immediately prior to the time of cessation of employment, a portion of the unvested Restricted Stock in each Tranche will vest, which portion will be equal to the number of unvested Shares in that Tranche multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of Months (counting a partial Month as a full Month) from the Grant Date until the date your employment is terminated by reason of death, Disability or Retirement, and the denominator of which is the number of Months from the Grant Date to the anniversary date on which such Tranche would otherwise have become unrestricted if your employment had continued, and you will forfeit the remaining Shares of Restricted Stock that are not vested. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Month" shall mean the period that begins on the first calendar day after the Grant Date, or the anniversary of the Grant Date that occurs in each calendar month, and ends on the anniversary of the Grant Date that occurs in the following calendar month.
Termination of Employment:
The occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined in the Plan) shall not, in and of itself, cause otherwise unvested Restricted Stock to become unrestricted or vested. Unless the Committee has exercised its discretion under Section 17(c) of the Plan to provide a result more favorable to you, whether or not the vesting of otherwise unvested Restricted Stock is accelerated following such Change of Control shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Transition Agreement then in effect between you and Harley-Davidson, Inc. (or, if you had been but are not then a party to a Transition Agreement, the provisions of the Transition Agreement that would have applied if the last such Transition Agreement to which you were a party had continued).
Change of Control:
The Company may issue in your name certificate(s) evidencing your Shares of Restricted Stock. In addition to any other legends placed on the certificate(s), such certificate(s) will bear the following legend:
Issuance of Share Certificates:
The shares of Stock represented by this certificate are subject to forfeiture, and the sale or other transfer of the shares of Stock represented by this certificate (whether voluntary or by operation of law) is subject to certain restrictions, as set forth in a Restricted Stock Agreement, dated as of                     , by and between Harley-Davidson, Inc. and the registered owner hereof. A copy of such Agreement may be obtained from the Secretary of Harley-Davidson, Inc.
Upon the vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock, you will be entitled to a new certificate for the Shares that have vested, without the foregoing legend, upon making a request for such certificate to the Secretary of the Company or to such other person as the Company may designate.
In lieu of issuing in your name certificate(s) evidencing your Shares of Restricted Stock, the Company may cause its transfer agent or other agent to reflect on its records your ownership of such Shares, subject to the terms of this Restricted Stock Agreement.
While your Shares of Restricted Stock are subject to forfeiture, you may exercise full voting rights and will receive all cash dividends and other distributions paid with respect to the Restricted Stock (reduced for any tax withholding due), in each case so long as the applicable record date occurs before you forfeit such Shares. If, however, any dividends or distributions are paid in Shares, such Shares will be subject to the same risk of forfeiture, restrictions on transferability and other terms of this Restricted Stock Agreement as are the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid.
Voting Rights and Dividends:
: To the extent that your receipt of Restricted Stock or the vesting of Restricted Stock results in income to you for federal, state or local taxes, you must deliver to the Company or to such other person as the Company may designate at the time the Company is obligated to withhold taxes that arise from such receipt or vesting, as the case may be, such amount as the Company requires to meet its withholding obligation under applicable tax laws or regulations. If you fail to deliver such amount as the Company requires, the Company has the right and authority to deduct or withhold from other compensation it would pay to you an amount, and/or to treat you as having surrendered vested Shares of Restricted Stock having a value, sufficient to satisfy its withholding obligations.
Tax Withholding
When income results from the vesting of Restricted Stock, to the extent the Company permits you to do so, you may satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by electing to have the Company accept that number of vested Shares of Restricted Stock having an aggregate Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax that the Company must withhold in connection with the vesting of such Shares. If you would be left with a fractional share after satisfying the withholding obligation on the Restricted Stock, the fair market value of that fractional share will be applied to your general federal tax withholding. If the Company does not allow you to elect to have the Company accept vested Shares of Restricted Stock, or if you want to keep all of the shares that are vesting, you will have to deliver to the Company or to such other person as the Company may designate funds in an amount sufficient to cover the withholding tax obligation on a date advised by the Company. Where you may elect to deliver funds to satisfy the withholding tax obligation, your election to deliver funds must be irrevocable, in writing, and submitted to the Secretary or to such other person as the Company may designate on or before the date that the Company specifies, which will be before the applicable vesting date, and if you fail to deliver such election then you will be deemed to have elected to have the Company accept vested Shares of Restricted Stock as described above.
If you do so within thirty (30) days of the Grant Date, you may make an election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for this Award so that the receipt of the Restricted Stock, rather than vesting, results in income. In that case, you will have to deliver to the Company or to such other person as the Company may designate funds in an amount sufficient to cover the withholding tax obligation.
: You may return this Restricted Stock Agreement to the Company (in care of the Vice President and Treasurer) within thirty (30) days after the Grant Date, together with any certificate you have received evidencing Shares, and by doing so you will forfeit any rights under this Restricted Stock Agreement and any rights to Shares that the Company has transferred to you under this Restricted Stock Agreement. If you choose to retain this Restricted Stock Agreement beyond that date, then you accept the terms of this Award, acknowledge these tax implications and agree and consent to all amendments to the Plan, the Harley-Davidson, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Plan and the Harley-Davidson, Inc. 2004 Incentive Stock Plan through the Grant Date as they apply to this Award and any prior awards of any kind to you under such plans.
Rejection/Acceptance


