FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20090202172722.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RISK FACTORS
An investment in Harley-Davidson, Inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. These risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has identified three preferred options to support the funding requirements of its financial services operations and is pursuing those options. The Company will also seek to extend the credit facilities under which amounts would otherwise become due in 2009. However, there is no assurance that the efforts to pursue those options or other alternatives or to extend the facilities will be successful.
If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, the Company might seek to meet some liquidity needs by drawing under its existing credit facilities. However, under such extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance that funds will be available under such agreements or that available funds will be sufficient.
The Company's financial services operations may be negatively affected by the increased difficulty in raising funding in the long-term and short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets. These negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing shareholders through the use of alternative sources of capital.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. The Company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. If the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, our financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected.
The Company's domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the United States Government, including the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), SEC, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Labor and Federal Trade Commission. In addition, the Company's sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
Our motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. These motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory agencies, such as California Air Resources Board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where our motorcycle products are sold. We are also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of our manufacturing operations. Any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing our products. Further, in response to concerns about global climate changes, we may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. This may require us to spend additional funds on research, product development, implementation costs and subject us to the risk that our competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage.
The Company's financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. The Company's financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, Eaglemark Savings Bank. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may affect the earnings of the financial services operations and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
In addition, the Company is also subject to policies and actions of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). Many major competitors of the Company are not subject to the requirements of the SEC or the NYSE rules. As a result, the Company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the Company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors.
 
 
The Company disclaims any obligation to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements. The Company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


