FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20090409170938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        On December 9, 2008, James L. Ziemer, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "Company"), advised the Board of Directors of the Company of his intention to retire from such positions during 2009 at such time as the Company has chosen a successor.
        On April 5, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Keith E. Wandell as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective on the commencement of his employment with the Company, which is expected to be May 1, 2009. The Board also confirmed its intention to elect Mr. Wandell to the Board of Directors effective at that time.
        Mr. Wandell, who is 59, is currently President and Chief Operating Officer of Johnson Controls, Inc., a global manufacturer of automotive, power and building solutions. He has held that position since 2006. He previously served as Executive Vice President of Johnson Controls from 2005 to 2006, Corporate Vice President of Johnson Controls from 1997 to 2005, President of the Automotive Experience business of Johnson Controls from 2003 to 2006 and President of the Power Solutions business of Johnson Controls from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Wandell joined Johnson Controls in 1988. He is also a director of Dana Holding Corporation.
        Consistent with the Company's practice, Mr. Wandell will not have an employment agreement. But, the appropriate Board committees have approved compensation that directors believe is consistent with the philosophy the Company has described in its Proxy Statement for its 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on Saturday, April 25, 2009. Among other things, that compensation includes the following:
        In light of the selection of Mr. Wandell, Mr. Ziemer's retirement as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company will now be effective at the end of the day on April 30, 2009. Mr. Ziemer will stand for reelection as a director at the Company's 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on Saturday, April 25, 2009. However, as required by the Company's policy, Mr. Ziemer will submit to the Board of Directors a letter of resignation from the Board upon his retirement as President and Chief Executive Officer, and it is anticipated that the Board will accept his resignation. Accordingly, Mr. Wandell's election as a director by the Board would fill the seat vacated as a result of Mr. Ziemer's resignation from the Board.
        The Company also announced the following organizational leadership changes, which will also be effective May 1, 2009:
     Matthew S. Levatich becomes President and Chief Operating Officer of Harley-Davidson Motor Company.
     James A. McCaslin moves to Executive Vice President for Corporate Product Planning for the Company. McCaslin has served as President of Harley-Davidson Motor Company for the past eight years.
     Enrico D'Onofrio assumes the post of Managing Director, MV Agusta.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


