FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20100809172540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 6, 2010, Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "Company") concluded the sale of its MV Agusta subsidiaries ("MV") to MV Agusta Motor Holding, S.r.l., a company controlled by Claudio Castiglioni (MV Agusta Motor Holding, S.r.l. and Mr. Castiglioni are referred to collectively as "Buyer"). Mr. Castiglioni is the former owner of MV and has served as MV's chairman since the Company acquired MV.
MV is an Italian motorcycle manufacturer that the Company acquired in October 2008. MV produces premium, high-performance sport motorcycles sold under the MV Agusta brand and lightweight sport motorcycles sold under the Cagiva brand. Among other facilities, MV has a manufacturing facility and office in Varese, Italy.
The results of MV were included in the Company's Motorcycles and Related Products segment. In August 2009, the Company unveiled a new business strategy to drive growth through a focus of efforts and resources on the unique strengths of the Harley-Davidson brand and to enhance productivity and profitability through continuous improvement. The Company's Board of Directors approved and the Company committed to the divestiture of MV as part of this strategy. At that time, the Motorcycles segment's financial information was adjusted to reflect MV as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.
The Company engaged a third party investment bank to assist with the marketing and sale of MV. The sale process resulted in discussions with several potential purchasers and culminated in the sale to Buyer. Under the agreement with Buyer relating to the sale, (1) the Company received nominal consideration in return for the transfer of MV and related assets; (2) the parties waived their respective rights under the stock purchase agreement and other documents related to the Company's purchase of MV in 2008, which included a waiver of Mr. Castiglioni's right to contingent earn-out consideration; and (3) the Company contributed 20 million Euros to MV as operating capital, which amount was paid into an escrow arrangement that is accessible by Buyer over 12 months.
The Company has previously taken write-downs in the fair value of MV totaling $162.6 million net of taxes, including an impairment charge of $61.5 million net of taxes for the second quarter of 2010. The terms of the transaction were similar to the assumptions used to value the net assets of MV as of June 27, 2010. The Company does, however, anticipate some additional loss from discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2010 as the accounting and tax impacts of the transaction are finalized. The Company will disclose additional detail regarding that loss in the Company's 2010 third quarter earnings release.
 
 
 
The assets and liabilities of MV were classified as held for sale and the results of operations of MV had been classified as discontinued operations in the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 27, 2010, in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 205 "Presentation of Financial Statements." Accordingly, there are no pro forma adjustments necessary to reflect the Company's sale of MV, and as such, the Company has not included a pro forma financial statements in this Item 9.01(b).
 
 
(2.1) Sale and Purchase Agreement among Harley-Davidson, Inc. and related parties and MV Agusta Holding S.r.l. and Claudio Castiglioni, dated July 31, 2010.*
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT is entered into in Milan (Italy) on 31 July 2010 by and among:
, a corporation incorporated under the laws of Wisconsin (USA), with office in 3700 West Juneau Avenue, Milwaukee, Wisconsin (USA), , acting by John Olin in his capacity as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ("")
Harley-Davidson, Inc.
HD
, a corporation duly incorporated under the laws of Delaware (USA), whose office is at 3700 West Juneau Ave., Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53208 U.S.A., acting by John Olin, in his capacity as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ("");
Harley-Davidson Holding Co., Inc.
HD Holding
, a corporation incorporated under the laws of Wisconsin (USA), with office in 3700 West Juneau Avenue, Milwaukee, Wisconsin (USA), , acting by John Olin in his capacity as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ("")
Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc.
HD Motor
, a limited liability company () incorporated under the laws of Italy, with registered office in Varese, at via G. Macchi No. 144, number of registration with the companies' register of Varese, fiscal code and VAT number 03057880126, acting by John Olin in his capacity as attorney-in-fact ("" and, together with HD, HD Holding and HD Motor, the "")
H-D Varese Holding Co. S.r.l.
societ a responsabilit limitata
HD Varese
HD Parties
- of the first part -
, a limited liability company () incorporated under the laws of Italy, with share capital of Euro 10,000.00 fully paid-in, registered office in Varese, at via Vittorio Veneto No. 11, number of registration with the companies' register of Varese, fiscal code and VAT number 03174200125, acting by Claudio Castiglioni in his capacity as sole director (the "")
MV Agusta Motor Holding S.r.l.
societ a responsabilit limitata
Buyer
, born in Carnago (Varese) on 22 November 1946 and residing in Via Montello 112, Varese, fiscal code no. CST CLD 46S22 B796S, marital status: married in community of property () ("");
Mr. Claudio Castiglioni
comunione dei beni
Mr. Castiglioni
- of the second part -
 
(HD, HD Holding, HD Motor, HD Varese, and the Buyer, collectively, the "" and each a "")
Parties
Party
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the other terms and expressions defined elsewhere in this Agreement for the purposes of the same, the following words and expressions have the meaning set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Payment of the MV Agusta Price, the MV USA Price and the Receivable Price will be made on the Closing Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Closing will take place at the offices of Bonelli Erede Pappalardo in Milan (Italy), at Via Barozzi 1, before Mr. Arrigo Roveda, Italian Notary Public in Milan, at 10:00 a.m. (local time) of the Closing Date or in any other place and time to be agreed upon in writing by the Parties before the Closing Date but in any event no later than 6th August 2010.
 
In addition to any other action to be taken and to any other instrument to be executed and/or delivered pursuant to this Agreement, at the Closing:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All actions and transactions constituting the Closing pursuant to Paragraph 4.2 will be regarded as one and single transaction so that, at the option of the Party having interest to the carrying out of the specific action or transaction, no action or transaction will be deemed to have taken place if and until all other actions and transactions constituting the Closing will have taken place as provided in this Agreement.
 
 
In lieu of any other representations or warranties however provided, HD makes solely the following representations and warranties to the Buyer, it being understood and agreed that these representations and warranties will be true and correct also on the Closing Date, as provided in Paragraph 5.2.
 
 
 
 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not conflict with, or result in the breach of, or constitute a default under, or give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of, the memorandum of association or the by-laws of any HD Party.
 
 
 
 
 
None of the HD Parties has incurred any liability for any brokerage, finder's or similar fees or commissions in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the payment of which could be validly claimed from the Buyer or any of the Group Companies.
 
The representations and warranties of HD contained in Paragraph 5.1 will be true and correct as of, and as though made on, the Closing Date, except as otherwise expressly provided or affected by transactions contemplated in this Agreement or otherwise approved in writing by the Buyer or made in the ordinary course of business consistently with the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Buyer and Mr. Castiglioni make the following representations and warranties to the HD Parties, each of which will be true and correct also on the Closing Date.
 
The buyer is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of Italy and has full power and authority to conduct its business and to own its assets and properties.
 
 
 
 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not conflict with, or result in a breach of, or constitute a default under, or give rise to a right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of, memorandum of association or the by-laws of the Buyer.
 
The Buyer and Mr. Castiglioni have not incurred any liability for any brokerage, finder's or similar fees or commissions in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the payment of which could be validly claimed from any of the HD Parties or any of their Affiliates.
 
The Buyer has obtained comfort letters from primary Italian and/or international banking institutions under which MV Agusta will be granted additional financing, which is sufficient for the continuation of the business of MV Agusta and the Group Companies as a going concern following Closing.
 
 
 
 
 
to be fully subscribed and paid-in in cash by HD Varese as sole shareholder of MV Agusta.
 
 
 
provided that if the Interim Payments exceed the amount of Euro 7,000,000 (seven million), then no portion of the Capital Increase Amount will be made available to MV Agusta upon Closing and the amount of Interim Payments in excess of Euro 7,000,000 (seven million) will be deducted from amounts to be made from time to time available to MV Agusta under paragraph (b) above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Buyer undertakes to indemnify and hold harmless all directors and/or statutory auditors of MV Agusta and any Group Companies designated by the HD Parties of and from any claim, action or demand which may be asserted against them by the relevant company, the Buyer, Mr. Castiglioni, Mr. Castiglioni's son, their spouses and any other relative (by blood or marriage) within the 6
th
(sixth) degree, or any Affiliate of the above Persons and to hold them harmless of and from any liability, cost or damage arising therefrom. For this purpose, on Closing, the Buyer will sign and deliver the keep harmless letters referred to in Section  pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
4.2(d)(v)
 
 
 
 
 
 
and undertake to indemnify and hold harmless the HD Parties and all their Affiliates of and from any claim, action or demand that may be asserted against them by Mr. Giovanni Castiglioni or Santol Limited with respect to the above agreements and to hold them harmless of and from any liability, cost or damage arising therefrom.
 
 
Until the expiration of one year after the Closing, the Buyer shall not, and shall cause MV Agusta not to, make any dividend distribution or other extraordinary or similar distribution for his own benefit or for the benefit of any of the Buyer, Mr. Castiglioni, Mr. Castiglioni's son, their spouses and any other relative (by blood or marriage) within the 6
th
(sixth) degree, or any Affiliate of the above Persons.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, any cost, tax, duty or charge arising out in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, will be borne and paid for as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The HD Parties appoint HD as their agent and representative (the "") for the sole purposes of (i) being notified of any possible designation pursuant to Paragraph 2.2 above, (ii) being notified of the Buyer's written instructions under Paragraphs 4.2(e)(i)(2) relating to new directors and statutory auditors to be appointed on Closing Date and (iii) communicating their approval to any possible publicity, release or announcement of the Buyer under Paragraph 8.2.1 above.
HD Representative
 
 
 
 
Any communication or notice required or permitted to be given under this Agreement will be made in writing and in the English language and will be deemed to have been duly and validly given (i) in the case of notice sent by letter or cable, upon receipt of same, and (ii) in the case of notice sent by fax or email, upon express acknowledgement of receipt of transmission by the receiving Party, addressed, in each case, as follows:
 
MV Agusta Motor Holding S.r.l.
Via Vittorio Veneto 11
21100 Varese, Italy
Attention to: Claudio Castiglioni
Fax: Fax +39.0332.254.391
Email: mvagustamotorholdingsrl@pec.it
with copy to:
CBA Studio Legale e Tributario
Galleria San Carlo, 6
20122 Milan (Italy)
Attention to: Alessandro Varrenti
Fax: +39.02.7602.1816
Email: alessandro.varrenti@cbalex.it
 
Harley-Davidson, Inc.
3700 West Juneau Ave.
53208 Milwaukee, Wisconsin (USA)
Attention to: John Olin
Fax: +1.414.343.4089
Email: John.Olin@harley-davidson.com
with copy to:
Bonelli Erede Pappalardo
Via Barozzi 1
20122 Milan (Italy)
Attention to: Umberto Nicodano and Stefano Micheli
Fax: +39.02.7711.3260
Email: umberto.nicodano@beplex.com
Email: stefano.micheli@beplex.com
at such other address and/or fax number and/or email address as any Party may furnish to the other by written notice, as provided in this Section 9.6.
 
This Agreement and the rights and obligations of the Parties under it will be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the Republic of Italy.
 
Any possible tolerance by one of the Parties of any conduct in breach of the provisions of this Agreement does not represent waiver of the rights arising from the violated provisions nor of the right to demand the exact performance of all the terms and conditions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
The Parties agree to execute and deliver all such instruments and documents and to perform all such acts and do all such other things as may be necessary to further the purposes of this Agreement.
 
The table of contents, the list of the Schedules and the descriptive headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and will not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
 
Unless otherwise expressly provided, any reference to Sections, Paragraphs and Schedules contained in this Agreement is deemed to be a reference to sections of, paragraphs of, and schedules to, this Agreement.
 
Except for certain documents contained in the Schedules, which are in the Italian language, this Agreement will be executed in the English language, which will be the only language governing this Agreement.
 
Unless otherwise expressly indicated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


