FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20100922163043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On September 16, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "") of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "") voted to increase the size of the Board from twelve persons to thirteen persons and to elect R. John Anderson as a new director to fill the vacancy created by such increase, with such election effective October 1, 2010. Mr. Anderson will serve as a director with a term expiring at the Company's 2011 annual meeting of shareholders.
Board
Company
At the time of Mr. Anderson's election, he was not appointed to any committee of the Board, and there was no expectation concerning any such appointment.
Mr. Anderson has been President and Chief Executive Officer of Levi Strauss & Co. (".") since November 2006. A privately held company with 2009 revenues of $4.1 billion, LS&Co designs and markets jeans, casual wear and related accessories for men, women and children under the Levi's, Dockers, Signature by Levi Strauss & Co. and Denizen brands.
LS&Co
Prior to assuming his current position, Mr. Anderson was named as Chief Operating Officer of LS&Co. in mid-2006, served as President of LS&Co.'s Global Sourcing Organization from 2004-2006, as Interim President of Levi Strauss Europe for four months from 2003-2004, and as President of LS&Co's Asia Pacific Division from 1998-2003.
The Company's Director Compensation Policy is applicable to Mr. Anderson as a non-employee director. In connection with Mr. Anderson's election to the Board, Mr. Anderson will receive a portion of the current $80,000 annual retainer that the Company pays to non-employee directors, at least 50% of which will be paid in shares of the Company's common stock and/or share units pursuant to an election of Mr. Anderson under the Company's Director Stock Plan. In addition, Mr. Anderson will receive a grant of 1,471 share units, each representing the value of one share of the Company's common stock, pursuant to the Company's Director Stock Plan. Mr. Anderson will receive this compensation following his first Board meeting as a director.
pro rata
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


