FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20110504170304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the "") believes the entry by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company into the agreement and amendment described in Item 8.01 involves matters in the ordinary course of the Company's business. However, to the extent such matters constitute the Company's entry into and/or amendment of a material definitive agreement, the text of Item 8.01 is incorporated by reference herein.
Company
 
The Company believes the entry by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company into the agreement and amendment described in Item 8.01 and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by such agreement and amendment involve indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of the Company's business. However, to the extent such matters have resulted in the Company becoming obligated on a direct financial obligation that is material to the Company, the text of Item 8.01 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
On April 28, 2011, the Company, its subsidiary Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc. ("") and certain other subsidiaries entered into a $675,000,000, four-year revolving credit facility maturing in April 2015 (the ""). The Four-Year Credit Facility replaced the Company's $675,000,000 364-day credit facility dated as of April 29, 2010 which the Company terminated concurrently with the effectiveness of the Four-Year Credit Facility.
HDFS
Four-Year Credit Facility
The Company, HDFS and other subsidiaries as borrowers or guarantors, various financial institutions as lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, are parties to the Four-Year Credit Facility. The Company is a party to the Four-Year Credit Facility as a borrower.
Borrowings under the Four-Year Credit Facility will bear interest at variable rates, which may be adjusted upward or downward depending on certain criteria, such as credit ratings. The Four-Year Credit Facility also requires the Company to pay a fee based upon the average daily unused portion of the aggregate commitments under the Four-Year Credit Facility.
On April 28, 2011, the Company, its subsidiary, Harley-Davidson Funding Corp. ("") and certain other subsidiaries also entered into an amendment (the "") to their $675,000,000, three-year credit facility, which matures in April 2013 (the "" and, together with the Four-Year Credit Facility, the "") to conform certain of the terms of the Amended Three-Year Credit Facility to those in the Four-Year Credit Facility. The Company, HDFC and other subsidiaries as borrowers or guarantors, various financial institutions as lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, are parties to the Amended Three-Year Credit Facility. The Company is a party to the Amended Three-Year Credit Facility as a borrower, and until the Company achieves certain credit ratings, the Company is also a party to the Amended Three-Year Credit Facility as a guarantor.
HDFC
Three-Year Amendment
Amended Three-Year Credit Facility
Global Credit Facilities
HDFS has historically used credit facilities primarily to support HDFS' unsecured commercial paper program and to fund HDFS' lending activities and other operations. Outstanding unsecured commercial paper may not exceed the unused portion of the Global Credit Facilities. As a result, the combined total of outstanding unsecured commercial paper of HDFS and borrowings of all borrowers under the Global Credit Facilities may not exceed $1,350,000,000.
 
The Global Credit Facilities contains various restrictions and covenants, including requirements that the Company and its subsidiaries maintain certain financial ratios at prescribed levels (as described in the following sentence) and other standard negative covenants. The Global Credit Facilities require (i) HDFS and its consolidated subsidiaries to, as of the end of any fiscal quarter, maintain a ratio of (A) consolidated indebtedness (excluding certain subordinated and intercompany indebtedness) to (B) the sum of consolidated shareholders' equity net of intangible assets, preferred stock and certain subordinated indebtedness no greater than 10.00 to 1.00, and (ii) the Company to maintain a ratio of (A) consolidated net income plus consolidated interest expense, taxes on or measured by income, depreciation expense and amortization expense (subject to certain other adjustments) to (B) consolidated interest expense, as of the end of any fiscal quarter for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended, of at least (A) 2.25 to 1.00, for such period ended up to and including June 30, 2013, and (B) 2.50 to 1.00, for each such period thereafter.
The Global Credit Facilities also contain customary events of default. If an event of default under the Global Credit Facilities occurs and is continuing, then the interest rate on all obligations under the Global Credit Facilities may be increased above the otherwise applicable rate, and the lenders under the Global Credit Facilities may terminate their commitments and declare any outstanding obligations under the Global Credit Facilities to be immediately due and payable.
The description of the Amended Three-Year Credit Facility and the Four-Year Credit Facility, respectively, set forth above is qualified by reference to the original credit agreement relating to the Amended Three-Year Credit Facility and the Three-Year Amendment and to the Four-Year Credit Agreement filed herewith as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 and Exhibit 4.3, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION COPY
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO 3-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT ("") is made as of April 28, 2011 (the "") by and among Harley-Davidson, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation, Harley-Davidson Funding Corp., a Nevada corporation, and Harley-Davidson Financial Services Canada, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of Canada (collectively, the ""), the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereof and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Global Administrative Agent (the ""), under that certain 3-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 29, 2010 by and among the Borrowers, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (as amended prior to the date hereof, the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
Amendment
Effective Date
Borrowers
Administrative Agent
Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrowers have requested that certain modifications be made to the Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS, the Borrowers, the Lenders party hereto and the Administrative Agent have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth above, the terms and conditions contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Borrowers, the Lenders party hereto and the Administrative Agent hereby agree to the following amendment to the Credit Agreement.
1. . Effective as of the Effective Date but subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in below, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments to Credit Agreement
Section 2
(a) Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to add the following new definitions therein in the appropriate alphabetical order:
"" means April 28, 2011.
Amendment No. 1 Effective Date
"" means any "earnouts" or similar obligations accrued in connection with any acquisition determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Earnouts
(b) Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to delete the definition of "Applicable Cash Restructuring Amount" appearing therein.
(c) The definition of "Agreement Accounting Principles" appearing in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to add the phrase ", subject to ," immediately before the phrase "generally accepted accounting principles" appearing therein and to change the date "December 31, 2009" appearing therein to the date "December 31, 2010".
Section 9.8
(d) The definition of "Consolidated" appearing in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to add the phrase "(or Subsidiaries, as applicable)" immediately following the phrase "refers to the consolidation of accounts" appearing therein.
(e) The definition of "Defaulting Lender" appearing in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"" means any Lender, as determined by the Global Administrative Agent, that has (a) failed to (i) fund its Pro Rata Share of any Advance or Loan within three (3) Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder or (ii) pay over to the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in the case of clause (i) above, such Lender notifies the Global Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not been satisfied, (b) notified any Company, the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement or has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement states that such position is based on such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) failed, within three (3) Business Days after written request by the Global Administrative Agent, to provide a certification in writing from an authorized officer of such Lender that it will comply with the terms of this Agreement relating to its obligations to fund prospective Loans (provided that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon the Global Administrative Agent's receipt of such certification in form and substance satisfactory to it), (d) otherwise failed to pay over to the Global Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three (3) Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (e) become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or custodian, appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment or has a direct or indirect parent company that has become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; provided, that a Lender shall not become a Defaulting Lender solely as the result of (x) the acquisition or maintenance of an ownership interest in such Lender or a Person controlling such Lender or (y) the exercise of control over a Lender or a Person controlling such Lender, in each case, by a Governmental Authority or an instrumentality thereof.
Defaulting Lender
 
(f) The definition of "Guarantor" appearing in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"" means (i) at any time on or after the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date and prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, any of the U.S. Borrowers or any of the Opco Guarantors or (ii) any of the Finco Guarantors and "" means (i) at any time on or after the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date and prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, each of the U.S. Borrowers and each of the Opco Guarantors and (ii) each of the Finco Guarantors and in each such case their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Guarantor
Guarantors
(g) The definition of "Indebtedness" appearing in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to (i) delete the word "and" appearing immediately before clause (iii) thereof and to replace such word with a comma and (ii) add the phrase "and (iv) Earnouts" immediately after the phrase "one or more of the Companies" appearing in clause (iii) thereof.
(h) The definition of "Material Domestic Opco Subsidiary" appearing in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to add the phrase "and any SPE" immediately following the phrase "but excluding HDFS and its Subsidiaries" appearing in the first sentence thereof.
(i) The definition of "Material Subsidiary" appearing in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"" means, at any time, any Subsidiary of Harley with a Net Worth equal to or greater than 10% of Consolidated Net Worth of Harley (as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter), or Net Income (for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then most recently ended during which the Consolidated Net Income of Harley was not a loss) equal to or greater than 10% of Consolidated Net Income (for such period) of Harley; that, if at any time the aggregate amount of Harley's Consolidated Net Income for such period attributable to Subsidiaries that are not Material Subsidiaries exceeds thirty percent (30%) of Harley's Consolidated Net Income for such period, Harley shall designate sufficient Subsidiaries as "Material Subsidiaries" to eliminate such excess, and such designated Subsidiaries shall for all purposes of this Agreement constitute Material Subsidiaries until such designation is no longer necessary to comply with this proviso; , that no Subsidiary of Harley that is not a Consolidated Subsidiary of Harley shall be deemed to be a "Material Subsidiary".
Material Subsidiary
provided
provided further
(j) The definition of "Permitted Liens" appearing in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to delete the word "accounting" appearing in clause (j) thereof and to replace such word with the word "account".
(k) The definition of "Support Agreement" appearing in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to add the phrase "and the letter agreement dated as of April 28, 2011, in each case" immediately after the phrase "the letter agreement dated as of April 29, 2010" appearing therein.
(l) The final paragraph of Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
The foregoing definitions shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the defined terms. Any accounting terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined herein shall be interpreted in accordance with hereof. Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document in any Loan Document shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, restatements, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference to any Person in any Loan Document shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns (subject to any restrictions on assignments set forth herein or in any other Loan Document) and (iii) any reference in any Loan Document to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law, and any reference in any Loan Document to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Section 9.8
(m) Clause (i) of Section 4.2 of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
(i) at the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Advance or Loan, no Default or Unmatured Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(n) Section 5.1.2 of the Credit Agreement is amended to delete the amount "$10,000,000" appearing therein and to replace such amount with the amount "$25,000,000".
(o) Section 5.1.6 of the Credit Agreement is amended to delete the date "December 31, 2009" appearing therein and to replace such date with the date "December 31, 2010".
(p) Section 5.1.8 of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
5.1.8 . No Borrower is engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulations T, U and X issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used, directly or indirectly, to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of such Board of Governors.
Regulations T, U and X
(q) Clause (a) of Section 6.1.11 of the Credit Agreement is amended to (i) delete the word "As" appearing in the first sentence thereof and to replace such word with the phrase "At any time prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date and as" and (ii) add the phrase "for which financial statements are available" immediately after the phrase "most recently ended fiscal quarter" appearing therein.
(r) Clause (b) of Section 6.1.11 of the Credit Agreement is amended to (i) add the phrase ", prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date," immediately after the word "If" appearing at the beginning of each sentence thereof, (ii) add the phrase "for which financial statements are available" immediately after the phrase "most recently ended fiscal quarter" appearing in the first sentence thereof, (iii) add the phrase "at any time prior to the
 
Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date" immediately after the phrase "becomes a Material Domestic Opco Subsidiary" appearing therein and (iv) add the following as a new sentence at the end thereof:
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section 6.1.11 to the contrary, the Opco Guarantors shall be released pursuant to Article XII.
(s) Clause (t) of Section 6.2.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to delete the amount "$300,000,000" appearing therein and to replace such amount with the amount "$400,000,000".
(t) Clause (v) of Section 6.2.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to delete the amount "$100,000,000" appearing therein and to replace such amount with the amount "$150,000,000".
(u) Clause (b) of Section 6.2.2 of the Credit Agreement is amended to delete the amount "$100,000,000" appearing therein and to replace such amount with the amount "$150,000,000".
(v) Clause (d) of Section 6.2.2 of the Credit Agreement is amended to (i) add the phrase "or at the time any of the Companies or any Material Subsidiary of any of the Companies otherwise acquires such Property from such Person" immediately prior to the proviso appearing therein, (ii) add the phrase ", or such Person becoming a Material Subsidiary," immediately after the phrase "consolidation or acquisition" appearing therein and (iii) add the phrase "or those of such Person becoming a Material Subsidiary" at the end of the proviso appearing therein.
(w) Clause (e) of Section 6.2.2 of the Credit Agreement is amended to delete the amount "$100,000,000" appearing therein and to replace such amount with the amount "$150,000,000".
(x) Clause (h) of Section 6.2.2 of the Credit Agreement is amended to (i) add the word "then" immediately before the phrase "most recent annual" appearing therein and (ii) delete the word "and" appearing after the semicolon therein.
(y) Clause (i) of Section 6.2.2 of the Credit Agreement is amended to delete the period appearing therein and to replace such period with the phrase "; and".
(z) Section 6.2.2 of the Credit Agreement is amended to add the following as a new clause (j) thereto:
(j) options, put and call arrangements, rights of first refusal and similar rights relating to investments in joint ventures, partnerships and other similar investments not prohibited by this Agreement.
(aa) Section 6.2.8 of the Credit Agreement is deleted in its entirety.
(bb) Clause (A) of Section 6.3 of the Credit Agreement is amended to (i) delete in its entirety the definition of "Applicable Cash Restructuring Amount" appearing therein and (ii) amend and restate in its entirety the definition of "Consolidated EBITDA" to read as follows:
 
"" means, for any period, net income (or net loss) of Harley and its Consolidated Subsidiaries in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles the sum of (a) Consolidated Interest Expense, (b) taxes on or measured by income (including franchise taxes imposed in lieu of income taxes), (c) depreciation expense, (d) amortization expense, (e) non-recurring cash restructuring expenses not to exceed $150,000,000 incurred in any fiscal year of Harley, (f) other non-cash or extraordinary charges and (g) losses arising from discontinued operations (h) any cash payments made during such period in respect of any non-cash charges previously added back to Consolidated EBITDA in accordance with the foregoing clause (f) and paid subsequent to the fiscal quarter in which such non-cash charge was incurred and (i) income or gains arising from discontinued operations, in each case determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles for such period. For the purposes of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period, if during such period Harley or any Subsidiary shall have made an acquisition or a disposition, Consolidated EBITDA for such period shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such acquisition or disposition occurred on the first day of such period.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
minus
(cc) Section 6.3 of the Credit Agreement is amended to (i) delete clause (B) thereof in its entirety and (ii) change clauses (C) and (D) thereof to new clauses (B) and (C) thereof, respectively.
(dd) Clause (C) of Section 6.3 of the Credit Agreement (as re-designated under clause (z) above) is amended to (i) delete the phrase "the ratio set forth below opposite such date:" appearing therein and to replace such phrase with the ratio "2.25 to 1.00." and (ii) delete in its entirety the table appearing therein.
(ee) Clause (d) of Section 7.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to add the parenthetical "(other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption)" immediately following the phrase "prior to its stated maturity date" appearing therein.
(ff) Section 9.8 of the Credit Agreement is amended to (i) add the clause "(i)" immediately prior to the phrase "without giving effect" appearing therein, (ii) delete the parenthetical "(previously referred to as Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 159)" appearing therein and (iii) add the following to and after the end of the last sentence thereof:
and (ii) without giving effect to any treatment of Indebtedness in respect of convertible debt instruments under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any such Indebtedness in a reduced or bifurcated manner as described therein, and such Indebtedness shall at all times be valued at the full stated principal amount thereof. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the determination of whether a lease constitutes a capital lease or an operating lease, and whether obligations arising under a lease are required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee thereunder and/or recognized as interest expense, shall be determined by reference to Agreement Accounting Principles as in effect on the Amendment No. 1 Effective Date.
(gg) The final paragraph of Article XII is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 6.1.11 or this Article XII to the contrary, (i) the obligations of the U.S. Borrowers under this Article XII shall be solely in respect of the Loans made to, and any other Obligations of, the Canadian Borrower, (ii) prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, the obligations of the Opco Guarantors under this Article XII shall be solely in respect of the Loans made to, and any other Obligations of, Harley, (iii) the obligations of the Finco Guarantors under this Article XII shall be solely in respect of the Loans made to, and any other Obligations of, HDFC and (iv) on and after the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, the obligations of the U.S. Borrowers and the Opco Guarantors under this Article XII shall be automatically released and terminated.
(hh) Clause (A) of Section 13.2 of the Credit Agreement is amended to delete the phrase "on a pro rata basis" appearing in the first sentence thereof.
(ii) Clause (A) of Section 13.3 of the Credit Agreement is amended to add the parenthetical "( that Harley shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Global Administrative Agent within ten (10) Business Days after having received written notice thereof from the Global Administrative Agent)" immediately after the phrase "an Affiliate thereof or an Approved Fund" appearing in the final sentence thereof.
provided
(jj) Schedule 6.2.1(b) to the Credit Agreement is changed and restated as new Schedule 6.2.1(b) thereto as set forth and attached as hereto.
Annex I
(kk) Schedule 6.2.2(c) to the Credit Agreement is changed and restated as new Schedule 6.2.2(c) thereto as set forth and attached as hereto.
Annex II
(ll) Schedule 6.2.8 to the Credit Agreement is deleted in its entirety.
(mm) The Credit Agreement is amended to replace each reference to "J.P. Morgan Securities Inc." with "J.P. Morgan Securities LLC".
(nn) The Credit Agreement is amended to replace each reference to "Closing Date" with a reference to "Amendment No. 1 Effective Date" in each place where "Closing Date" appears in the definitions of "Material Adverse Change" and "Material Adverse Effect" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement, in Sections 6.2.1(b), 6.2.2(c) and 6.2.3 of the Credit Agreement and in the ninth paragraph of Article XII of the Credit Agreement.
2. . The effectiveness of this Amendment is subject to the conditions precedent that the Administrative Agent shall have received (i) counterparts of this Amendment duly executed by each Borrower, the Required Lenders and the Administrative Agent and counterparts of the Consent and Reaffirmation attached hereto duly executed by the Guarantors, (ii) such other instruments, documents and legal opinions as are reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent and (iii) payment and/or reimbursement of the reasonable fees and expenses of the Administrative Agent and its affiliates (including, to the extent invoiced, fees and expenses of counsel for the Administrative Agent) in connection with this Amendment and the Loan Documents.
Conditions of Effectiveness
3. . Each Borrower hereby represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of each Borrower
 
(a) This Amendment and the Credit Agreement as amended hereby constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of such Borrower enforceable against such Borrower in accordance with their terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity, regardless of whether the application of such principles is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
(b) As of the date hereof and giving effect to the terms of this Amendment, (i) no Default or Unmatured Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (ii) the representations and warranties of such Borrower contained in Article V of the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, are true and correct in all material effects as of the Effective Date, except for representations and warranties made with reference solely to an earlier date, which representations and warranties shall be true and correct as of such earlier date.
4. .
Reference to and Effect on the Credit Agreement
(a) Upon the effectiveness hereof, each reference to the Credit Agreement in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
(b) Except as specifically amended above, the Credit Agreement and all other documents, instruments and agreements executed and/or delivered in connection therewith shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
(c) Except as specifically provided above, the execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement or any other documents, instruments and agreements executed and/or delivered in connection therewith.
5. . This Amendment shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the internal laws of the State of New York, but giving effect to federal laws applicable to banks.
Governing Law
6. . Section headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purpose.
Headings
7. . This Amendment may be executed by one or more of the parties hereto on any number of separate counterparts, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the foregoing Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement dated as of April 29, 2010 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "") by and among Harley-Davidson, Inc., Harley-Davidson Funding Corp. and Harley-Davidson Financial Services Canada, Inc. (collectively, the ""), the Lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Global Administrative Agent (the ""), which Amendment No. 1 is dated as of April 28, 2011 and is by and among the Borrowers, the financial institutions listed on the signature pages thereof and the Administrative Agent (the ""). Capitalized terms used in this Consent and Reaffirmation and not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement. Without in any way establishing a course of dealing by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, each of the undersigned consents to the Amendment and reaffirms the terms and conditions of the Support Agreement (in the case of Harley), the Guarantee (in the case of the Guarantors) and any other Loan Document executed by it and acknowledges and agrees that each and every Loan Document executed by the undersigned in connection with the Credit Agreement remains in full force and effect and is hereby reaffirmed, ratified and confirmed. All references to the Credit Agreement contained in the above-referenced documents shall be a reference to the Credit Agreement as so modified by the Amendment and as the same may from time to time hereafter be amended, modified or restated.
Credit Agreement
Borrowers
Administrative Agent
Amendment
Dated April 28, 2011
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Consent and Reaffirmation has been duly executed as of the day and year above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.3
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This 4-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 28, 2011 is entered into among Harley-Davidson, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation, Harley-Davidson Funding Corp., a Nevada corporation, Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Harley-Davidson Credit Corp., a Nevada corporation, certain other Subsidiaries of Harley from time to time a party hereto as Opco Guarantors, the institutions from time to time a party hereto as Lenders, whether by execution of this Agreement or an assignment and assumption pursuant to , JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the Global Administrative Agent, Citibank, N.A., in its capacity as Syndication Agent and BNP Paribas, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, U.S. Bank National Association and Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, each in its capacity as a Documentation Agent. The parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 13.3
1.1 . In addition to the terms defined in other sections of this Agreement, the following terms used in this Agreement shall have the following meanings, applicable both to the singular and the plural forms of the terms defined:
Certain Defined Terms
As used in this Agreement:
"" has the meaning specified in hereof.
Absolute Rate Auction
Section 2.10(b)(i)
"" means a Bid Rate Advance or Syndicated Global Advance.
Advance
"" of any Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person. A Person shall be deemed to control another Person if the controlling Person is the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of greater than five percent (5%) or more of any class of voting securities (or other voting interests) of the controlled Person or possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the controlled Person, whether through ownership of stock, membership, ownership or other equity interests, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
"" means the aggregate of the Commitments of all the Syndicated Global Lenders, as reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof. The initial Aggregate Commitment is $675,000,000.
Aggregate Commitment
"" is defined in hereof.
Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure
Section 2.4(b)(ii)
"" means this 4-Year Credit Agreement, as it may be amended, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
Agreement
"" means, subject to Section 9.8, generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time in the United States, applied in a manner consistent with that used by Harley in its preparation of its audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 (except for changes to such application as are concurred on by Harley's independent public accountants); that, if Harley notifies the Global Administrative Agent that Harley wishes to amend to eliminate the effect of any change in Agreement Accounting Principles on the operation of such covenant (or if the Global Administrative Agent notifies Harley that the Required Lenders wish to amend for
Agreement Accounting Principles
provided
Section 6.3
Section 6.3
 
such purpose), then Harley's compliance with such section shall be determined on the basis of Agreement Accounting Principles in effect immediately before the relevant change in Agreement Accounting Principles became effective, until either such notice is withdrawn or such Section is amended in a manner satisfactory to Harley and the Required Lenders.
"" means, for any day, a fluctuating interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) as shall be in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day; (b) the sum of one-half of one percent (0.50%) and the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day; and (c) the Eurodollar Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) 1%. For purposes hereof, "" shall mean the rate of interest per annum announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or its parent as its prime rate (which is not necessarily the lowest rate charged to any customers) in effect at its principal office in New York City, changing when and as said prime rate changes. Each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective on the date such change is announced as being effective. "" shall mean, for any day, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Global Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by the Global Administrative Agent. If for any reason the Global Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds Effective Rate for any reason, including the inability of the Global Administrative Agent to obtain sufficient quotations in accordance with the terms hereof, the Alternate Base Rate shall be determined without regard to  of the first sentence of this definition until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Eurodollar Rate shall be effective on the effective date of such change.
Alternate Base Rate
plus
Prime Rate
Federal Funds Effective Rate
clause (b)
"" is defined in hereof.
Applicable Commitment Fee Rate
Section 2.6(b)
"" is defined in hereof.
Applicable Floor
Section 2.6(b)
"" is defined in hereof.
Applicable Margin
Section 2.6(b)
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC or Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. and "" means, collectively, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Arranger
Arrangers
"" means any of the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, any vice president, controller, treasurer or any other officer of the relevant Borrower from time to time designated by an Authorized Officer in writing to the Global Administrative Agent as an Authorized Officer, acting singly.
Authorized Officer
 
"" is defined in hereof.
Bankruptcy Code
Article XII
"" means a Syndicated Global Advance which bears interest at the Alternate Base Rate.
Base Rate Advance
"" means a Syndicated Global Loan, or portion thereof, which bears interest at the Alternate Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Bid Rate Loans to a Global Borrower from each of the Syndicated Global Lenders whose offer to make a Bid Rate Loan as part of such borrowing has been accepted by such Global Borrower under the applicable auction bidding procedure described in .
Bid Rate Advance
Section 2.10
"" is defined in hereof.
Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice
Section 2.10(b)(i)
"" means a loan by a Syndicated Global Lender to a Global Borrower as part of a Bid Rate Advance resulting from the applicable auction bidding procedure described in .
Bid Rate Loan
Section 2.10
"" means a promissory note of a Global Borrower payable to the order of any Syndicated Global Lender, in substantially the form of hereto, evidencing the indebtedness of such Global Borrower to such Syndicated Global Lender resulting from the Bid Rate Loans made by such Syndicated Global Lender to such Global Borrower.
Bid Rate Note
Exhibit B-2
"" means the reduction in availability under the Aggregate Commitment as a result of outstanding Bid Rate Loans.
Bid Rate Reduction
"" means any of the U.S. Borrowers, and "" means, collectively, the U.S. Borrowers.
Borrower
Borrowers
"" means a date on which an Advance or a Loan is made hereunder.
Borrowing Date
"" means a Syndicated Global Advance Borrowing Notice or a Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice.
Borrowing Notice
"" means (i) with respect to any borrowing, payment or rate selection of Loans bearing interest at the Eurodollar Rate, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are generally open for commercial banking business in New York, New York and on which dealings in United States Dollars are carried on in the London interbank market; and (ii) for all other purposes a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are generally open for commercial banking business in New York, New York.
Business Day
"" is defined in hereof.
Buying Lender
Section 2.4(b)(ii)
"" of a Person means any lease of Property by such Person as lessee which would be capitalized on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Capitalized Lease
"" of a Person means the amount of the obligations of such Person under Capitalized Leases which would be capitalized on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles in effect as of the date of this Agreement.
Capitalized Lease Obligations
 
"" is defined in hereof.
Change
Section 3.2
"" means any transaction or event as a result of which: (a) (i) any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert (other than any Related Person) shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of Harley (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of Harley; or (ii) during any period of up to 12 consecutive calendar months, commencing after the Closing Date, individuals who at the beginning of such 12-month period were directors of Harley shall cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the board of directors of Harley (except to the extent that individuals who, at the beginning of such 12-month period, were directors of Harley were replaced by individuals (x) elected by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of Harley or (y) nominated for election by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of Harley and thereafter elected as directors by the shareholders of Harley) or (b) (i) Harley, directly or through one or more Subsidiaries, shall cease to own of record and beneficially, with sole voting power, in the aggregate, at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the issued and outstanding class or classes of Voting Stock of HDFS (such percentage measured by voting power rather than number of shares), (ii) HDFS, directly or through one or more Subsidiaries, shall cease to own of record and beneficially, with sole voting power, all of the issued and outstanding Voting Stock of HDCC, or (iii) HDCC, directly or through one or more Subsidiaries, shall cease to own of record and beneficially, with sole voting power, all of the issued and outstanding Voting Stock of HDFC.
Change of Control
"" means April 28, 2011.
Closing Date
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Code
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission and any Person succeeding to the functions thereof.
Commission
"" means, for each Syndicated Global Lender, the obligation of such Syndicated Global Lender to make Syndicated Global Loans in an amount not exceeding the amount set forth on to this Agreement opposite its name thereon under the heading "Commitment" or contained in the assignment and assumption by which it became a Lender, as such amount may be modified from time to time pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or to give effect to any applicable assignment and assumption.
Commitment
Exhibit A
"" is defined in hereof.
Commitment Increase Notice
Section 2.4(b)(i)
"" means any Borrower or Guarantor, individually, and "" means each of the Borrowers and Guarantors, collectively; that no Opco Guarantor (other than any Opco Guarantor executing this Agreement on the Closing Date in such capacity) shall be considered a "Company" hereunder unless and until all of the requirements of Section 6.1.11(a) have been satisfied with respect to such entity and each Opco Guarantor shall cease to be considered a "Company" hereunder upon its release from the Guarantee as contemplated by Section 6.1.11(b) (until such time, if any, that it is subsequently required to satisfy the requirements of Section 6.1.11(a)).
Company
Companies
provided
 
"" refers to the consolidation of accounts (or Subsidiaries, as applicable) in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Consolidated
"" is defined in hereof.
Consolidated EBITDA
Section 6.3(A)
"" is defined in hereof.
Consolidated Equity
Section 6.3(A)
"" is defined in hereof.
Consolidated Finco Debt
Section 6.3(A)
"" is defined in hereof.
Consolidated Interest Expense
Section 6.3(A)
"" of any Person for any period means the Consolidated net income (or loss) of such Person for such period, as shall be determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Consolidated Net Income
"" of any Person means such Person's Consolidated shareholders' equity, as shall be determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Consolidated Net Worth
"" is defined in hereof.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
Section 6.3(A)
"", as applied to any Person, means any Contractual Obligation, contingent or otherwise, of that Person with respect to any Indebtedness of another or other obligation or liability of another, including, without limitation, any such Indebtedness, obligation or liability of another directly or indirectly guaranteed, endorsed (otherwise than for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business), co-made or discounted or sold with recourse by that Person, or in respect of which that Person is otherwise directly or indirectly liable, including Contractual Obligations (contingent or otherwise) arising through any agreement to purchase, repurchase, or otherwise acquire such Indebtedness, obligation or liability or any security therefor, or to provide funds for the payment or discharge thereof (whether in the form of loans, advances, stock purchases, capital contributions or otherwise), or to maintain solvency, assets, level of income, or other financial condition, or to make payment other than for value received. It is understood and agreed that the amount of liability in respect of any Contingent Obligation of any Person shall be deemed to be the lower of (a) an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Contingent Obligation exists and (b) the maximum amount for which such Person may be liable pursuant to the terms of the instrument embodying such Contingent Obligation, unless such primary obligation and the maximum amount for which such Person may be liable are not stated or determinable, in which case the amount of such Contingent Obligation shall be such Person's maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as reasonably determined by Harley in good faith.
Contingent Obligation
"", as applied to any Person, means any provision of any equity or debt securities issued by that Person or any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement, pledge agreement, guaranty, contract, undertaking, agreement or instrument, in any case in writing, to which that Person is a party or by which it or any of its properties is bound, or to which it or any of its properties is subject.
Contractual Obligation
"" is defined in hereof.
Conversion/Continuation Notice
Section 2.8(D)
"" is defined in hereof.
Cure Loan
Section 8.2
 
"" means an event described in hereof.
Default
Article VII
"" means any Lender, as determined by the Global Administrative Agent, that has (a) failed to (i) fund its Pro Rata Share of any Advance or Loan within three (3) Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder or (ii) pay over to the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in the case of clause (i) above, such Lender notifies the Global Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not been satisfied, (b) notified any Company, the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement or has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement states that such position is based on such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) failed, within three (3) Business Days after written request by the Global Administrative Agent, to provide a certification in writing from an authorized officer of such Lender that it will comply with the terms of this Agreement relating to its obligations to fund prospective Loans (provided that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon the Global Administrative Agent's receipt of such certification in form and substance satisfactory to it), (d) otherwise failed to pay over to the Global Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three (3) Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (e) become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or custodian, appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment or has a direct or indirect parent company that has become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; provided, that a Lender shall not become a Defaulting Lender solely as the result of (x) the acquisition or maintenance of an ownership interest in such Lender or a Person controlling such Lender or (y) the exercise of control over a Lender or a Person controlling such Lender, in each case, by a Governmental Authority or an instrumentality thereof.
Defaulting Lender
"" means an entity that, pursuant to Treas. Reg.  301.7701-2(c)(2), is disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes as an entity separate from its owner.
Disregarded Entity
"" and "" means dollars in the lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollar
$
"" means a Subsidiary organized under the laws of a jurisdiction located in the United States of America.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means any "earnouts" or similar obligations accrued in connection with any acquisition determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Earnouts
"" is defined in hereof.
Effective Commitment Amount
Section 2.4(b)(i)
 
"" means any action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, investigation, proceeding, consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Materials or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to the environment, including, without limitation, (a) by any governmental or regulatory authority for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief.
Environmental Action
"" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial or agency interpretation, policy or guidance relating to pollution or protection of the environment or natural resources, including, without limitation, those relating to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or discharge of Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Law
"" means any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
"" means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of Harley's controlled group, or under common control with Harley, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) (i) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC, or (ii) the requirements of subsection (1) of Section 4043(b) of ERISA (without regard to subsection (2) of such Section) are met with a contributing sponsor, as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of a Plan, and an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of Harley or any ERISA Affiliate in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by Harley or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f) the conditions for the imposition of a lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA shall have been met with respect to any Plan; (g) the adoption of an amendment to a Plan requiring the provision of security to such Plan pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA; or (h) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan.
ERISA Event
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advance for any specified Interest Period, or a Bid Rate Advance pursuant to an Indexed Rate Auction for an Interest Period designated by the relevant Borrower, LIBOR.
Eurodollar Base Rate
 
"" means, with respect a Eurodollar Rate Loan and a Eurodollar Rate Advance for the relevant Interest Period, the sum of (i) the quotient of (a) the Eurodollar Base Rate applicable to such Interest Period, divided by (b) one the Reserve Requirement (expressed as a decimal) applicable to such Interest Period, (ii) the Applicable Margin.
Eurodollar Rate
minus
plus
"" means a Syndicated Global Advance which bears interest at the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Advance
"" means a Syndicated Global Loan, or portion thereof, which bears interest at the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
"" means, with respect to the Global Administrative Agent, any Lender, or any other recipient of a payment made under this Agreement or any Note by a Borrower or Guarantor: (a) Taxes imposed on (or measured by) the overall net income of such recipient, and franchise Taxes imposed on such recipient, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or the jurisdiction in which such recipient's principal executive office is located, or, in the case of a Lender, Taxes imposed on (or measured by) its overall net income, and franchise Taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction in which such Lender's applicable lending office is located; (b) any branch profits Taxes imposed by the United States or, in the case of a Lender, any similar Taxes imposed by any other jurisdiction in which such Lender's applicable lending office is located; and (c) any U.S. Federal withholding Taxes imposed under FATCA.
Excluded Taxes
"" means that certain 3-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 29, 2010 among Harley, HDFC, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as global administrative agent, as such agreement has been amended or otherwise modified from time to time.
Existing 3-Year Credit Agreement
inter alia
"" means that certain 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of April 29, 2010 among Harley, HDFC, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as global administrative agent, as such agreement has been amended or otherwise modified prior to the Closing Date.
Existing Credit Agreement
inter alia
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement, and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof; provided, however, that "FATCA" shall also include any amendments to Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code that are substantively comparable, but only if the requirements in such amended version for avoiding the withholding are not materially more onerous than the requirements in the current version.
FATCA
"" shall have the meaning assigned to that term in the definition of Alternate Base Rate above.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means dealer wholesale receivables, retail installment contracts, promissory notes, retail leases, charge accounts or other receivables, chattel paper or other similar financial assets originated, acquired or serviced in the ordinary course of business by any of the Companies or their Subsidiaries and shall include all related collateral and assets and any retained assets in respect of any of the foregoing.
Finance Receivables
"" means a special purpose, bankruptcy remote corporation, partnership, limited liability company or trust which is wholly-owned, directly or indirectly, by any one or more of the Companies, and which is formed for the sole and exclusive
Finance Receivables Subsidiary
 
purpose of (i) purchasing or otherwise acquiring Finance Receivables from one or more of the Companies or their respective Subsidiaries, (ii) financing such purchases or otherwise facilitating a Permitted Finance Receivables Securitization and (iii) conducting activities related thereto.
"" means HDFS, HDCC and HDFC.
Finco
"" means any of HDFS or HDCC and "" means each of HDFS and HDCC and in each such case their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Finco Guarantor
Finco Guarantors
"" is defined in hereof.
Finco Leverage Ratio
Section 6.3(A)
"" is defined in hereof.
Fitch
Section 2.6(b)
"" means a Eurodollar Rate Advance.
Fixed Rate Advance
"" means a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Fixed Rate Loan
"" means the Alternate Base Rate.
Floating Rate
"" means a Base Rate Advance.
Floating Rate Advance
"" means a Syndicated Global Loan, or portion thereof, which bears interest at the Alternate Base Rate or any other floating rate, as applicable, the Floating Rate Margin (if any).
Floating Rate Loan
plus
"" means a rate per annum equal to the amount (if any) by which the Applicable Margin exceeds 1.00%.
Floating Rate Margin
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (including any office, branch or affiliate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.) in its capacity as contractual representative for itself and the Lenders pursuant to hereof and any successor Global Administrative Agent appointed pursuant to hereof.
Global Administrative Agent
Article X
Article X
"" means either of the U.S. Borrowers and "" means, collectively, the U.S. Borrowers, in each case together with its respective successors and permitted assigns.
Global Borrower
Global Borrowers
"" means the Eurodollar Rate or Alternate Base Rate.
Global Rate Option
"" means any nation or government, any monetary authority, any federal, state, provincial, local or other political subdivision thereof and any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" is defined in hereof.
Guarantee
Article XII
"" means (i) at any time on or after the Closing Date and prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, any of the Opco Guarantors or (ii) any of the Finco Guarantors and "" means (i) at any time on or after the Closing Date and prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, each of the Opco Guarantors and (ii) each of the Finco Guarantors and in each such case their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Guarantor
Guarantors
 
"" means the first date on which Harley achieves both of the following: (i) a Moody's Rating of Baa1 (with stable outlook) or better and (ii) an S&P Rating of BBB+ (with stable outlook) or better; , that (x) if at any time Moody's does not maintain an issuer rating for Harley, the condition in the foregoing clause (i) may be satisfied at such time if HDFC achieves a Moody's Rating of Baa1 (with stable outlook) or better and (y) if at any time S&P does not maintain an implied corporate credit rating for Harley, the condition in the foregoing clause (ii) may be satisfied at such time if HDFC achieves an S&P Rating of BBB+ (with stable outlook) or better. For the avoidance of doubt, it is understood and agreed that HDFC's Moody's Rating (and/or S&P Rating, as applicable) shall only be used to determine whether the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date has occurred to the extent that Harley does not have a Moody's Rating (and/or an S&P Rating, as applicable) as described above.
Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date
provided
further
"" means Harley-Davidson, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation, and its successors and assigns.
Harley
"" means (a) petroleum and petroleum products, byproducts or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas and (b) any other chemicals, materials or substances designated, classified or regulated as hazardous or toxic or as a pollutant or contaminant under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means Harley-Davidson Credit Corp., a Nevada corporation, and its successors and permitted assigns.
HDCC
"" means Harley-Davidson Funding Corp., a Nevada corporation, and its successors and permitted assigns.
HDFC
"" means Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its successors and permitted assigns.
HDFS
"" of a Person means any and all obligations of such Person, whether absolute or contingent and howsoever and whensoever created, arising, evidenced or acquired (including all renewals, extensions and modifications thereof and substitutions therefor), under (i) any and all agreements, devices or arrangements designed to protect at least one of the parties thereto from the fluctuations of interest rates, commodity prices, exchange rates or forward rates applicable to such party's assets, liabilities or exchange transactions, including, but not limited to, dollar-denominated or cross-currency interest rate exchange agreements, forward currency exchange agreements, interest rate cap or collar protection agreements, forward rate currency or interest rate options, puts and warrants, and (ii) any and all cancellations, buy backs, reversals, terminations or assignments of any of the foregoing.
Hedging Obligations
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (i) any indebtedness of such Person, contingent or otherwise, (a) in respect of borrowed money including all principal, interest, fees and expenses with respect thereto (whether or not the recourse of the lender is to the whole of the assets of such Person or only to a portion thereof), or (b) evidenced by bonds, notes, acceptances, debentures or other instruments or letters of credit (or reimbursement obligations with respect thereto) or representing the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any Property (including pursuant to Capitalized Leases) or services, if and to the extent any of the foregoing indebtedness would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles (except that any such balance that
Indebtedness
 
constitutes a trade payable and/or an accrued liability arising in the ordinary course of business shall not be considered Indebtedness); and (ii) to the extent not otherwise included in clause (i) above, (a) interest accruing after the commencement of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar proceedings and other interest that would have accrued but for the commencement of such proceedings, (b) any Capitalized Lease Obligations, (c) obligations, whether or not assumed, secured by Liens or payable out of the proceeds or production from Property now or hereafter owned or acquired by such Person (excluding in any event obligations in respect of Permitted Finance Receivables Securitizations to the extent such obligations would not appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles), (d) Contingent Obligations and (e) net Hedging Obligations. The amount of Indebtedness of any Person at any date shall be without duplication (i) the outstanding balance at such date of all uncontingent obligations as described above and the liability of any such Contingent Obligations at such date and (ii) in the case of Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien to which the Property or assets owned or held by such Person is subject, the lesser of the fair market value at such date of any asset subject to a Lien securing the Indebtedness of others and the amount of the Indebtedness secured (provided that if such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Indebtedness, it shall be taken into account only to the extent of the book value or fair market value, whichever is greater, of the Property subject to such Indebtedness). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Indebtedness shall exclude (i) obligations in respect of Permitted Finance Receivables Securitizations to the extent such obligations would not appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles, (ii) all intercompany indebtedness, obligations and Contingent Obligations, all to the extent owing by and among one or more of the Companies and their Subsidiaries, (iii) all obligations under the Support Agreement or other support agreements among one or more of the Companies and (iv) Earnouts. The amount of Indebtedness of Harley and any Subsidiary hereunder shall be calculated without duplication of guaranty obligations of Harley or any Subsidiary in respect thereof.
"" is defined in hereof.
Indemnified Matters
Section 9.6(B)
"" means Taxes, other than Excluded Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by the Company under any Loan Document.
Indemnified Taxes
"" is defined in hereof.
Indemnitees
Section 9.6(B)
"" is defined in Section 2.6(b) hereof.
Index
"" is defined in hereof.
Indexed Rate Auction
Section 2.10(b)(i)
"" means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated April 2011 relating to the Borrowers and the Transactions.
Information Memorandum
"" is defined in hereof.
Interest Coverage Ratio
Section 6.3(A)
"" means, with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, a period of one (1), two (2), three (3) or six (6) months (or such other period of time as is consented to by each of the Lenders) commencing on a Business Day selected by the applicable Borrower pursuant to this Agreement. For Eurodollar Rate Loans, such Interest Period shall end on (but exclude) the day which corresponds numerically to such date one (1), two (2), three (3) or six (6) months thereafter (or such other period of time as is consented to by each of the Lenders); , , that if there is no such numerically corresponding day in such next, second, third or sixth (or other
Interest Period
provided
however
 
applicable) succeeding month, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such next, second, third or sixth (or other applicable) succeeding month. If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall end on the next succeeding Business Day; , , that for Eurodollar Rate Loans, if said next succeeding Business Day falls in a new calendar month, such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day.
provided
however
"" means the Internal Revenue Service and any Person succeeding to the functions thereof.
IRS
"" means the lending institutions listed on the signature pages of this Agreement and any other Person that shall have become a Lender hereunder pursuant to , including each Syndicated Global Lender and their respective successors and assigns.
Lenders
Section 2.4(b)
"" is defined in hereof.
Lender Increase Notice
Section 2.4(b)(i)
"" means, with respect to a Lender or the Global Administrative Agent, any office, branch, subsidiary or affiliate of such Lender or the Global Administrative Agent.
Lending Installation
"" means the applicable British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in Dollars appearing on the LIBOR Reference Page as of the applicable LIBOR Fixing Time, in the approximate amount of the pro rata share of the Global Administrative Agent (or any of its Affiliates) of the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loan, or in the case of an Indexed Rate Auction in an amount equal to $1,000,000, and, in each case, having a maturity approximately equal to the requested Interest Period or interest period; that, (i) if the LIBOR Reference Page is not available to the Global Administrative Agent for any reason at or about the LIBOR Fixing Time, the applicable LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period or interest period shall instead be the applicable British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in Dollars offered to leading banks as reported by any other generally recognized financial information service specified by the Global Administrative Agent as of the applicable LIBOR Fixing Time, and having a maturity approximately equal to such Interest Period or interest period, and (ii) if no such British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate is available, the applicable LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period or interest period shall instead be the rate determined by the Global Administrative Agent to be the rate at which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. offers to place deposits in Dollars with first-class banks in the London interbank market at the applicable LIBOR Fixing Time, in the approximate amount of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s (or any of its Affiliates) relevant Eurodollar Rate Loan or in the case of an Indexed Rate Auction in an amount equal to $1,000,000 and, in each case, having a maturity approximately equal to such Interest Period or interest period.
LIBOR
provided
"" means the relevant fixing date and/or time described in .
LIBOR Fixing Time
Schedule I
"" means the relevant page on the relevant screen described in , including any successor or substitute screen, as applicable, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such screen, as determined by the Global Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in the London interbank market in Dollars.
LIBOR Reference Page
Schedule I
 
"" means any security interest, lien (statutory or other) or other similar charge or encumbrance of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale, Capitalized Lease or other title retention agreement (excluding operating leases)).
Lien
"" means a Syndicated Global Loan or a Bid Rate Loan.
Loan
"" is defined in hereof.
Loan Account
Section 2.14(E)
"" means this Agreement, the Notes, the Support Agreement and all other documents, instruments and agreements executed pursuant thereto or contemplated thereby, in each case as the same may be amended, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
Loan Documents
"" means any material adverse change in the business, assets, operations or financial condition of Harley and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole (excluding changes or effects in connection with specific events (and not general economic or industry conditions) applicable specifically to Harley and/or its Subsidiaries as disclosed in any Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K filed with or furnished to the Commission prior to the Closing Date).
Material Adverse Change
"" means any event, development or circumstance that has had a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations or financial condition of Harley and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole (excluding changes or effects in connection with specific events (and not general economic or industry conditions) applicable specifically to Harley and/or its Subsidiaries as disclosed in any Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K filed with or furnished to the Commission prior to the Closing Date) or (b) the validity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents or the rights or remedies of the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders thereunder.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means any Domestic Subsidiary that is a Material Subsidiary but excluding HDFS and its Subsidiaries and any SPE. For the avoidance of doubt, no SPE shall be deemed to constitute a "Material Domestic Opco Subsidiary" hereunder.
Material Domestic Opco Subsidiary
"" means, at any time, any Subsidiary of Harley with a Net Worth equal to or greater than 10% of Consolidated Net Worth of Harley (as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter), or Net Income (for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then most recently ended during which the Consolidated Net Income of Harley was not a loss) equal to or greater than 10% of Consolidated Net Income (for such period) of Harley; that, if at any time the aggregate amount of Harley's Consolidated Net Income for such period attributable to Subsidiaries that are not Material Subsidiaries exceeds thirty percent (30%) of Harley's Consolidated Net Income for such period, Harley shall designate sufficient Subsidiaries as "Material Subsidiaries" to eliminate such excess, and such designated Subsidiaries shall for all purposes of this Agreement constitute Material Subsidiaries until such designation is no longer necessary to comply with this proviso; , that no Subsidiary of Harley that is not a Consolidated Subsidiary of Harley shall be deemed to be a "Material Subsidiary".
Material Subsidiary
provided
provided further
"" is defined in hereof.
Moody's
Section 2.6(b)
"" is defined in hereof.
Moody's Rating
Section 2.6(b)
 
"" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which Harley or any ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of Harley or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than Harley and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which Harley or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
"" of any Person for any period means the net income (or loss) of such Person for such period, as shall be determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Net Income
"" of any Person means such Person's consolidated shareholder's equity, as shall be determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Net Worth
"" is defined in hereof.
Non Pro Rata Loan
Section 8.2
"" means any Subsidiary of Harley that is not a Company.
Non-Loan Party
"" means (i) a Lender that is neither a Disregarded Entity nor a U.S. Person, and (ii) a Lender that is a Disregarded Entity and that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having as its sole member a Person that is not a U.S. Person.
Non-U.S. Lender
"" means the Syndicated Global Notes and the Bid Rate Notes.
Notes
"" is defined in hereof.
Notice of Assignment
Section 13.3(B)
"" means all Loans, advances, debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties owing by any Borrower to the Global Administrative Agent, either Arranger, any Lender, any Affiliate of any of the foregoing or any Indemnitee, of any kind or nature, present or future, arising under this Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan Document, whether or not evidenced by any note, guaranty or other instrument, whether or not for the payment of money, whether arising by reason of an extension of credit, loan, guaranty, indemnification, or in any other manner, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assignment), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and however acquired. The term includes, without limitation, all interest, charges, expenses, fees, attorneys' fees and disbursements, paralegals' fees (in each case whether or not allowed), and any other sum chargeable to any Borrower under this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Obligations
"" means any Material Domestic Opco Subsidiary.
Opco Guarantor
"" is defined in hereof.
Other Taxes
Section 3.5
"" is defined in hereof.
Outstanding Credit Exposure
Section 2.4(b)(ii)
"" is defined in hereof.
Participants
Section 13.2(A)
"" means the last Business Day of each calendar quarter.
Payment Date
 
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any successor thereto.
PBGC
"" means any financial asset financing program or facility providing for the sale, conveyance, pledge or other transfer of Finance Receivables by any of the Companies or their respective Subsidiaries to a trust or to one or more limited purpose finance companies, special purpose entities or financial institutions or other third party investors or financiers, either directly or through one or more Subsidiaries.
Permitted Finance Receivables Securitization
"" means such of the following as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been commenced: (a) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies to the extent not required to be paid under hereof; (b) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmen's, mechanics', carriers', workmen's and repairmen's Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations that are either (i) not overdue for a period of more than forty-five (45) days or (ii) being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained; (c) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws, unemployment insurance or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations; (d) easements, rights of way and other encumbrances on title to real Property that do not render title to the Property encumbered thereby unmarketable or materially adversely affect the use of such Property for its present purposes; (e) Liens of attachment or judgment with respect to judgments, writs or warrants of attachment, or similar process against any of the Companies or any of their Subsidiaries which do not constitute a Default under ; (f) Liens arising from leases, subleases or licenses granted to others which do not interfere in any material respect with the business of the Companies or any of their Subsidiaries; (g) any interest or title of the lessor in the Property subject to any operating lease entered into by any of the Companies or any of their Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business; (h) Liens in respect of an agreement to dispose of any asset, to the extent such disposal is permitted by this Agreement; (i) Liens arising under any retention of title arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business or over goods or documents of title to goods arising in the ordinary course of documentary credit transactions; (j) Liens arising due to any cash pooling, netting or composite account arrangements between any one or more of the Borrowers and any of their Subsidiaries or between any one or more of such entities and one or more banks or other financial institutions where any such entity maintains deposits; and (k) customary rights of set off, revocation, refund or chargeback or similar rights under deposit disbursement, concentration account agreements or under the UCC (or comparable foreign law) or arising by operation of law of banks or other financial institutions where any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries maintains deposit, disbursement or concentration accounts in the ordinary course of business.
Permitted Liens
Section 6.1.2
Section 7.1(f)
"" of a Person means recourse obligations of such Person with respect to Finance Receivables sold, pledged or otherwise transferred pursuant to a Permitted Finance Receivables Securitization, if and only if such recourse obligations constitute performance guarantees and/or indemnification or repurchase obligations arising as a result of the breach by such Person of a representation, warranty or covenant in respect of such Finance Receivables or otherwise in respect of losses, costs or expenses arising as a result of such Permitted Finance Receivables Securitizations, in each case other than (A) recourse for Finance Receivables uncollectible because of bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of creditworthiness or other mere failure to pay on the part of the obligor with respect to such Finance Receivable, and (B) indemnification or repurchase obligations arising from a representation, warranty or covenant relating to the payment of any Indebtedness incurred or securities issued in connection with such Permitted Finance Receivables Securitization.
Permitted Securitization Recourse Obligations
 
"" means any natural person, corporation, firm, company, joint venture, partnership, association, enterprise, trust or other entity or organization, or any government or political subdivision or any agency, department or instrumentality thereof.
Person
"" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
"" shall have the meaning assigned to that term in the definition of Alternate Base Rate above.
Prime Rate
"" means, with respect to any Syndicated Global Lender, the percentage obtained by dividing (A) such Syndicated Global Lender's Commitment at such time (in each case, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement) by (B) the Aggregate Commitment at such time; , , that, if the Commitments have been terminated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, "" means, with respect to any Syndicated Global Lender, the percentage obtained by dividing (A) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Syndicated Global Lender's Syndicated Global Loans by (B) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Syndicated Global Loans.
Pro Rata Share
provided
however
Pro Rata Share
"" of a Person means any and all property, whether real, personal, tangible, intangible, or mixed, of such Person, or other assets owned, leased or operated by such Person.
Property
"" is defined in hereof.
Proposed New Lender
Section 2.4(b)(i)
"" is defined in hereof.
Purchasers
Section 13.3(A)
"" is defined in hereof.
Register
Section 13.3(C)
"" means Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor thereto or other regulation or official interpretation of said Board of Governors relating to reserve requirements applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System.
Regulation D
"" means each of the following: (a) Harley, (b) any Subsidiary of Harley or (c) any employee benefit plan of Harley or of any Subsidiary of Harley or any Person organized, appointed or established by Harley for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan.
Related Person
means any release, spill, emission, leaking, pumping, injection, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching or migration into the indoor or outdoor environment, including the movement of contaminants through or in the air, soil, surface water or groundwater.
""
Release
"" means, in all cases subject to Section 8.2(v) hereof, Lenders whose Pro Rata Shares, in the aggregate, are greater than fifty percent (50%); , , that, if any of the Lenders shall have failed to fund its Pro Rata Share of any Loan requested by the applicable Borrower which such Lenders are obligated to fund under the terms of this Agreement and any such failure has not been cured, then for so long as such failure continues, "" means Lenders (excluding all Lenders whose failure to fund their respective Pro Rata Shares of such Loans has not been so cured) whose Pro Rata Shares represent greater than fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate Pro Rata Shares of such Lenders; , , , that, if the Commitments have been terminated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, "" means Lenders (without regard to such Lenders' performance of their respective obligations hereunder) whose Pro Rata Shares, in the aggregate, are greater than fifty percent (50%).
Required Lenders
provided
however
Required Lenders
provided
further
however
Required Lenders
 
"" means, with respect to an Interest Period, the maximum aggregate reserve requirement (including all basic, supplemental, marginal and other reserves) which is imposed under Regulation D on eurocurrency liabilities.
Reserve Requirement
"" is defined in hereof.
Risk-Based Capital Guidelines
Section 3.2
"" is defined in hereof.
S&P
Section 2.6(b)
"" is defined in hereof.
S&P Rating
Section 2.6(b)
"" is defined in hereof.
Selling Lender
Section 2.4(b)(ii)
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of Harley or any ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than Harley and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which Harley or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
"" means a Subsidiary trust, limited purpose finance company, or special purpose entity formed for the purpose of consummation of one or more Permitted Finance Receivables Securitizations.
SPE
"" is defined in hereof.
Subordinated Indebtedness
Section 6.3(A)
"" means Indebtedness arising from intercompany loans; if the obligor on such Indebtedness is one or more of the Companies (whether as a primary obligor or a secondary obligor), such Indebtedness shall be subordinated to the Obligations pursuant to the subordination terms attached as .
Subordinated Intercompany Indebtedness
provided
Schedule II
"" of a Person means (i) any corporation more than 50% of the outstanding securities having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries, or (ii) any company, partnership, association, trust, joint venture or similar business organization more than 50% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled. Unless otherwise expressly provided, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" shall mean a direct or indirect Subsidiary of Harley.
Subsidiary
"" means the Support Agreement dated as of September 26, 1996 between Harley and HDFS evidencing Harley's agreement to support certain debts of HDFS and its Subsidiaries, together with and as supplemented by the letter agreement dated as of April 28, 2011 to the Global Administrative Agent from Harley and HDFS pursuant to which certain modifications to the above-referenced Support Agreement were agreed to for the benefit of the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
Support Agreement
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Syndicated Global Loans of the same Type made to a Global Borrower by each of the Syndicated Global Lenders pursuant to , and in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances, for the same Interest Period.
Syndicated Global Advance
Section 2.1
 
"" is defined in hereof.
Syndicated Global Advance Borrowing Notice
Section 2.6(a)
"" means any Lender (or any Affiliate, branch or agency thereof) party hereto with a commitment to make Syndicated Global Loans to each Global Borrower.
Syndicated Global Lender
"" means a loan by a Syndicated Global Lender to a Global Borrower as part of a Syndicated Global Advance.
Syndicated Global Loan
"" means, to the extent requested, a promissory note of a Global Borrower payable to the order of any requesting Syndicated Global Lender, in substantially the form of hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of such Global Borrower to such Syndicated Global Lender resulting from the Syndicated Global Loans made by such Syndicated Global Lender to such Global Borrower.
Syndicated Global Note
Exhibit B-1
"" means any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, assessments, fees, charges or withholdings, and any and all liabilities with respect to the foregoing.
Taxes
"" means a credit against, relief or remission of, or repayment of any Taxes or Other Taxes.
Tax Credit
"" means the earlier of (a) April 28, 2015 and (b) the date of termination of the Commitments pursuant to or .
Termination Date
Section 2.4
Section 8.1
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Companies of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the borrowing of Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof.
Transactions
"" is defined in hereof.
Transferee
Section 13.5
"" means, (a) with respect to any Syndicated Global Loan, its nature as a Base Rate Loan or Eurodollar Rate Loan, and (b) with respect to any Syndicated Global Advance, its nature as a Base Rate Advance or Eurodollar Rate Advance.
Type
"" means an event which, but for the lapse of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a Default.
Unmatured Default
"" means Harley or HDFC, and "" means, collectively, Harley and HDFC.
U.S. Borrower
U.S. Borrowers
"" means a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
U.S. Person
"" means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
 
The foregoing definitions shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the defined terms. Any accounting terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined herein shall be interpreted in accordance with hereof. Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document in any Loan Document shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, restatements, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference to any Person in any Loan Document shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns (subject to any restrictions on assignments set forth herein or in any other Loan Document) and (iii) any reference in any Loan Document to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law, and any reference in any Loan Document to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Section 9.8
2.1 . Upon the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in and hereof, from and including the date of this Agreement and prior to the Termination Date, each Syndicated Global Lender severally and not jointly agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, to make Syndicated Global Loans to the Global Borrowers from time to time, in Dollars, in an amount not to exceed in the aggregate at any one time outstanding an amount equal to such Syndicated Global Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Aggregate Commitment; ,
Syndicated Global Loans
Sections 4.1
4.2
provided
however
(i) that the sum of (a) the aggregate amount of the Syndicated Global Loans then outstanding and (b) the aggregate amount of the Bid Rate Loans then outstanding, shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitment;
(ii) that the aggregate outstanding amount of all Loans at any time shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitment; and
(iii) that, notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the aggregate amount of all Syndicated Global Loans made by a Syndicated Global Lender shall not at any time exceed the amount of such Syndicated Global Lender's Commitment.
Each Syndicated Global Advance under this shall consist of Syndicated Global Loans made by each Syndicated Global Lender ratably in proportion to such Syndicated Global Lender's respective Pro Rata Share; , the Global Administrative Agent may allocate any Syndicated Global Advance on a non-pro rata basis to the extent the failure to so allocate would cause a Syndicated Global Lender's Loans to exceed such Syndicated Global Lender's Commitment. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Global Borrower may borrow, repay and reborrow Syndicated Global Loans at any time prior to the Termination Date. Each Global Borrower may select, in accordance with and and subject to the other conditions and limitations therein set forth and set forth in this , Global Rate Options and Interest Periods applicable to portions of the Syndicated Global Advances. On the Termination Date, the outstanding principal balance of the Syndicated Global Loans shall be paid in full by the Global Borrowers.
Section 2.1
provided that
Sections 2.6
2.8
Article II
2.2 [Reserved]
2.3 . Subject to and the requirements of , each relevant Global Borrower may (a) prepay Floating Rate Loans following irrevocable notice given to the Global Administrative Agent by such Borrower, by not later than 12:00 noon (New York time) on the date of the proposed prepayment, such notice specifying the aggregate principal amount of and the proposed date of the prepayment, and if such notice is given such Borrower shall prepay the outstanding
Optional Payments of Loans
Section 3.4
Section 2.7
 
principal amounts of the specified Floating Rate Loans comprising part of the same Syndicated Global Advance in whole or ratably in part and (b) prepay any Fixed Rate Loans following notice given to the Global Administrative Agent by such Borrower by not later than 12:00 noon (New York time) on the date that is not less than one (1) Business Day preceding the date of the proposed prepayment, such notice specifying the Syndicated Global Advance to be prepaid and the proposed date of the prepayment, and, if such notice is given, such Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amounts of the Fixed Rate Loans comprising an Advance in whole (and not in part), together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid. With respect to Floating Rate Advances, each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount not less than $1,000,000 and integral multiples of $100,000.
2.4 .
Reduction/Increase of Commitments
(a) . Harley may permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitment in whole, or in part ratably among the Lenders, in an aggregate minimum amount of $10,000,000 and integral multiples of $5,000,000 in excess of that amount, upon at least five (5) Business Days' prior written notice to the Global Administrative Agent, which notice shall specify the amount of any such reduction; , , that the amount of the Aggregate Commitment may not be reduced below the sum of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Advances. All accrued and unpaid commitment fees shall be payable on the effective date of any termination of the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder. The Global Administrative Agent shall promptly distribute to the relevant Lenders any notices received by it under this .
Reduction of Commitments
provided
however
Section 2.4(a)
(b) .
Increase in Aggregate Commitment
(i) At any time prior to the Termination Date, Harley may request that the Aggregate Commitment be increased; , (A) the Aggregate Commitment shall at no time exceed $1,000,000,000 and (B) each such request shall be in a minimum amount of at least $10,000,000. Each request shall be made in a written notice given to the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders by Harley not less than twenty (20) Business Days prior to the proposed effective date of such increase, which notice (a "") shall specify the amount of the proposed increase in the Aggregate Commitment and the proposed effective date of such increase. In the event of such a Commitment Increase Notice, each of the Syndicated Global Lenders shall be given the opportunity to participate in the requested increase ratably in the proportions that their respective Commitments bear to the Aggregate Commitment under this Agreement. On or prior to the date that is fifteen (15) Business Days after receipt of the Commitment Increase Notice, each Syndicated Global Lender shall submit to the Global Administrative Agent a notice indicating the maximum amount by which it is willing to increase its Commitment in connection with such Commitment Increase Notice (any such notice to the Global Administrative Agent being herein a ""). Any Syndicated Global Lender which does not submit a Lender Increase Notice to the Global Administrative Agent prior to the expiration of such fifteen (15) Business Day period shall be deemed to have denied any increase in its Commitment. In the event that the increases of Commitments set forth in the Lender Increase Notices exceed the amount requested by Harley in the Commitment Increase Notice, the Global Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall have the right, with the consent of Harley, to allocate the amount of increases necessary to meet the Commitment Increase Notice. In the event that the Lender Increase Notices are less than the amount requested by the Commitment Increase Notice, not later than three (3) Business Days prior to the proposed effective date of the requested increase, Harley may notify the Global Administrative Agent of any financial institution that shall have agreed to become a "Lender" party hereto (a "") in connection with the Commitment Increase Notice. Any Proposed New Lender shall be subject to the consent of the Global Administrative Agent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld). If Harley shall not have arranged any Proposed New Lender(s) to commit to the shortfall from
provided that
Commitment Increase Notice
Lender Increase Notice
Proposed New Lender
 
the Lender Increase Notices, then Harley shall be deemed to have reduced the amount of the Commitment Increase Notice to the aggregate amount set forth in the Lender Increase Notices. Based upon the Lender Increase Notices, any allocations made in connection therewith and any notice regarding any Proposed New Lender, if applicable, the Global Administrative Agent shall notify Harley and the Syndicated Global Lenders on or before the Business Day immediately prior to the proposed effective date of the amount of each Syndicated Global Lender's and Proposed New Lenders' Commitment (the "") and the amount of the Aggregate Commitment, which amounts shall be effective on the following Business Day. Any increase in the Aggregate Commitment shall be subject to the following conditions precedent: (I) as of the date of the Commitment Increase Notice and as of the proposed effective date of the increase in the Aggregate Commitment, no event shall have occurred and then be continuing which constitutes a Default or Unmatured Default, (II) Harley, the Global Administrative Agent and each Proposed New Lender or Syndicated Global Lender that shall have agreed to provide a "Commitment" in support of such increase in the Aggregate Commitment shall have executed and delivered a "Commitment and Acceptance" substantially in the form of hereto, (III) counsels for the Borrowers and for the Guarantors shall have provided to the Global Administrative Agent supplemental opinions in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent and (IV) the Borrowers, the Guarantors and the Proposed New Lender shall otherwise have executed and delivered such other instruments and documents as the Global Administrative Agent shall have reasonably requested in connection with such increase. If any fee shall be charged by the Lenders in connection with any such increase, such fee shall be in accordance with then prevailing market conditions, which market conditions shall have been reasonably documented by the Global Administrative Agent to Harley. No less than two (2) Business Days prior to the effective date of the increase of the Aggregate Commitment, the Global Administrative Agent shall notify Harley of the amount of the fee to be charged by the Lenders, and Harley may, at least one (1) Business Day prior to such effective date, cancel its request for the commitment increase. Upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent to any increase in the Aggregate Commitment, the Global Administrative Agent shall promptly advise Harley and each Syndicated Global Lender of the effective date of such increase. Upon the effective date of any increase in the Aggregate Commitment that is supported by a Proposed New Lender, such Proposed New Lender shall be a party to this Agreement as a Lender and shall have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder. Nothing contained herein shall constitute, or otherwise be deemed to be, a commitment on the part of any Lender to increase its Commitment hereunder at any time.
Effective Commitment Amount
Exhibit E
(ii) For purposes of this clause (ii), (A) the term "" shall mean (1) each Syndicated Global Lender the Effective Commitment Amount of which is greater than its Commitment prior to the effective date of any increase in the Aggregate Commitment and (2) each Proposed New Lender that is allocated an Effective Commitment Amount in connection with any Commitment Increase Notice and (B) the term "" shall mean each Syndicated Global Lender whose Commitment is not being increased from that in effect prior to such increase in the Aggregate Commitment. Effective on the effective date of any increase in the Aggregate Commitment pursuant to clause (i) above, each Selling Lender hereby sells, grants, assigns and conveys to each Buying Lender, without recourse, warranty, or representation of any kind, except as specifically provided herein, an undivided percentage in such Selling Lender's right, title and interest in and to the aggregate principal amount of its Syndicated Global Loans outstanding at such time ("") in the respective amounts and percentages necessary so that, from and after such sale, each such Selling Lender's Outstanding Credit Exposure shall equal such Selling Lender's Pro Rata Share (calculated based upon the Effective Commitment Amounts) of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure. Effective on the effective date of the increase in the Aggregate Commitment pursuant to clause (i) above, each Buying Lender hereby purchases and accepts such grant, assignment and conveyance from the Selling Lenders. Each Buying Lender hereby agrees that its respective purchase price for the portion of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure purchased hereby shall equal the respective amount necessary so that, from and after such payments, each Buying Lender's Outstanding Credit Exposure shall equal such Buying
Buying Lender(s)
Selling Lender(s)
Outstanding Credit Exposure
 
Lender's Pro Rata Share (calculated based upon the Effective Commitment Amounts) of the aggregate of the Outstanding Credit Exposure of all the Syndicated Global Lenders (""). Such amount shall be payable on the effective date of the increase in the Aggregate Commitment by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Global Administrative Agent. The Global Administrative Agent, in turn, shall wire transfer any such funds received to the Selling Lenders, in same day funds, for the sole account of the Selling Lenders. Each Selling Lender hereby represents and warrants to each Buying Lender that such Selling Lender owns the Outstanding Credit Exposure being sold and assigned hereby for its own account and has not sold, transferred or encumbered any or all of its interest in such Outstanding Credit Exposure, except for participations which will be reduced or extinguished (as applicable) upon payment to Selling Lender of an amount equal to the portion of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure being sold by such Selling Lender. Each Buying Lender hereby acknowledges and agrees that, except for each Selling Lender's representations and warranties contained in the foregoing sentence, each such Buying Lender is buying such interest without recourse to the Selling Lender and has entered into its Commitment and Acceptance with respect to such increase on the basis of its own independent investigation and has not relied upon, and will not rely upon, any explicit or implicit written or oral representation, warranty or other statement of the Lenders or the Global Administrative Agent concerning the authorization, execution, legality, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents. Harley hereby agrees to compensate each Selling Lender for all losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by such Selling Lender in connection with the sale and assignment of any Eurodollar Rate Loan hereunder on the terms and in the manner as set forth in .
Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure
Section 3.4
2.5 . The Global Administrative Agent shall, promptly upon receipt of a Syndicated Global Advance Borrowing Notice, notify each Syndicated Global Lender of such Syndicated Global Advance Borrowing Notice and, not later than such time as is reasonably requested by the Global Administrative Agent on each Borrowing Date, each Syndicated Global Lender shall make available its Syndicated Global Loan or Loans, in funds immediately available to the Global Administrative Agent at its address specified pursuant hereto. The Global Administrative Agent will promptly make the funds so received from the Syndicated Global Lenders available to the relevant Global Borrower.
Method of Borrowing Syndicated Global Advances
2.6 .
Method of Selecting Types and Interest Periods; Determination of Applicable Margins
(a) . Each Borrower shall select the Type of Syndicated Global Advance and, in the case of each Eurodollar Rate Advance, the Interest Period applicable to each Syndicated Global Advance from time to time. Each Global Borrower shall give the applicable office of the Global Administrative Agent or its applicable Affiliate (in each case as previously directed by the Global Administrative Agent to such Global Borrower) irrevocable notice (a ""), at its applicable office as previously specified to such Borrower, not later than the applicable time described in , specifying: (i) the Borrowing Date of such Advance (which shall be a Business Day); (ii) the aggregate amount of such Advance; (iii) the Type of Advance selected and (iv) in the case of each Eurodollar Rate Advance, the Interest Period applicable thereto. There shall be no more than ten (10) Interest Periods in effect with respect to all of the Syndicated Global Advances to any one Global Borrower at any time. Each Floating Rate Advance shall bear interest from and including the date of the making of such Advance to (but not including) the date of repayment thereof at the applicable Floating Rate, changing when and as such Floating Rate changes, the Floating Rate Margin. Changes in the rate of interest on that portion of any Syndicated Global Advance maintained as a Floating Rate Loan will take effect simultaneously with each change in the Alternate Base Rate. Each Eurodollar Rate Advance shall bear interest from and including the first day of the Interest Period applicable thereto to (but not including) the last day of such Interest Period at the interest rate determined as applicable to such Eurodollar Rate Advance.
Method of Selecting Types and Interest Periods for Syndicated Global Advances
Syndicated Global Advance Borrowing Notice
Schedule I
plus
 
(b) .
Determination of Applicable Margin, Applicable Floor and Applicable Commitment Fee Rate
(i) . As used in this and in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
Section 2.6(b)
"" means the percentage identified as the Applicable Commitment Fee Rate in, and determined by reference to, the table set forth in this  below.
Applicable Commitment Fee Rate
clause (i)
"" means, at any date of determination, the Finco(s) that have, with respect to any rating agency identified in this Section, the highest of the rating(s) issued by such rating agency then in effect (if any) with respect to the senior unsecured long-term debt securities without third-party credit enhancement of any of the Fincos. For the avoidance of doubt, references in this Section to the Applicable Finco's ratings shall refer to such highest ratings.
Applicable Finco
"" means the percentage identified as the Applicable Floor in, and determined by reference to, the table set forth in this  below.
Applicable Floor
clause (i)
"" means a percentage determined in accordance with the provisions of this by reference to Harley's or the Applicable Finco's, as applicable, Status as established by reference to the table set forth in this  below.
Applicable Percentage
Section 2.6(b)
clause (i)
"" means the greater of (i) the Applicable Floor and (ii) (x) the Applicable Percentage, multiplied by, (y) on each Rate Set Date, the average of the Markit CDX.NA.IG Series 16 or any successor series (5 Year Period) (the "") for the preceding thirty (30) business days (in respect of which the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association declares the U.S. fixed income market to be open) as available to the applicable office of the Global Administrative Agent, or if fewer, the number of days for which the then current series is in effect:
Applicable Margin
Index
 
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by Fitch Ratings and then in effect with respect to (i) in the case of Loans to Harley, Harley's issuer default rating and (ii) in the case of Loans to any other Borrower, the Applicable Finco's senior unsecured long-term debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
Fitch Rating
 
"" exists at any date if, on such date, at least two of the following ratings exist: the Moody's Rating is A2 or better, the S&P Rating is A or better or the Fitch Rating is A or better.
Level I Status
"" exists at any date if, on such date, (i) the applicable Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status and (ii) at least two of the following ratings exist: the Moody's Rating is A3 or better, the S&P Rating is A- or better or the Fitch Rating is A- or better.
Level II Status
"" exists at any date if, on such date, (i) the applicable Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status or Level II Status and (ii) at least two of the following ratings exist: the Moody's Rating is Baa1 or better, the S&P Rating is BBB+ or better or the Fitch Rating is BBB+ or better.
Level III Status
"" exists at any date if, on such date, (i) the applicable Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status , Level II Status or Level III Status and (ii) at least two of the following ratings exist: the Moody's Rating is Baa2 or better, the S&P Rating is BBB or better or the Fitch Rating is BBB or better.
Level IV Status
"" exists at any date if, on such date, the applicable Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status or Level IV Status.
Level V Status
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and then in effect with respect to (i) in the case of Loans to Harley, Harley's issuer rating and (ii) in the case of Loans to any other Borrower, the Applicable Finco's senior unsecured long-term debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
Moody's Rating
"" means, (1) with reference to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, (i) the date on which the initial rate applicable to such Loan is set and (ii) (a) in the case of Loans with Interest Periods of 3 months or less, the date of commencement of each successive Interest Period for such Loan and (b) in the case of Loans with Interest Periods of greater than 3 months, the date which is the end of each successive 3-month period, (2) with reference to any Floating Rate Loan and the Applicable Commitment Fee Rate, the Closing Date and the first Business Day of each calendar quarter thereafter, (3) with respect to all Loans, the date on which any change in a Status occurs and (4) notwithstanding the foregoing, during such time when the Index is unavailable, as further described in .
Rate Set Date
Section 3.3(b)
"" means (1) Eurodollar Rate Loans and (2) Eurodollar Rate Advances.
Relevant Loans
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by Standard and Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies, Inc., and then in effect with respect to (i) in the case of Loans to Harley, Harley's implied corporate credit rating and (ii) in the case of Loans to any other Borrower, the Applicable Finco's senior unsecured long-term debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
S&P Rating
"" means Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status, Level IV Status or Level V Status.
Status
(ii) . The Applicable Percentage and the Applicable Floor in respect of any Loan and the Applicable Commitment Fee Rate payable under shall be determined by reference to the table set forth in  above, as applicable, on the basis of the
Determination of Applicable Percentage, Applicable Floor and Applicable Commitment Fee Rate
Section 2.14(C)
clause (i)
 
Status as determined from Harley's or the Applicable Finco's, as applicable, then-current Moody's Rating, S&P Rating and Fitch Rating. The rating in effect on any date for the purposes of this Section is that in effect at the close of business on such date (it being understood and agreed that any change in such rating shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change). Except under the circumstances described in  below, if at any time Harley has no Moody's Rating, no S&P Rating and no Fitch Rating, Level V Status shall exist with respect to Loans to Harley. Except under the circumstances described in  below, if at any time none of the Fincos has a Moody's Rating, S&P Rating or Fitch Rating, Level V Status shall exist with respect to Loans to any Borrower other than Harley. If any rating agency shall change the basis on which ratings are established, each reference to Moody's Rating, S&P Rating or Fitch Rating shall refer to the then equivalent rating by the applicable rating agency. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (a) if Harley or the Applicable Finco, as applicable, is split-rated by all three rating agencies (i.e., the ratings issued by the rating agencies are at three different levels), then the intermediate level will apply, and (b) in the event that Harley or the Applicable Finco, as applicable, shall maintain ratings from only two rating agencies and they are split-rated and (x) the ratings differential is one level, then the higher level will apply and (y) the ratings differential is two levels or more, then the level next below that of the higher of the levels will apply.
clause (iii)
clause (iii)
(iii) . If any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Companies and the Required Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this Agreement to reflect the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the applicable ratings (in respect of determination of "Status" and the "Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date") from such rating agency shall be determined by reference to the rating(s) most recently in effect from such rating agency prior to such cessation.
Changes re. Rating Agencies
2.7 . Each Syndicated Global Advance shall be in the applicable minimum amounts specified in ; , , that any Base Rate Advance may be in the amount of the unused Aggregate Commitment.
Minimum Amount of Each Syndicated Global Advance
Schedule I
provided
however
2.8 .
Method of Selecting Types and Interest Periods for Conversion and Continuation of Syndicated Global Advances
(A) . The applicable Borrower may elect from time to time, subject to the provisions of , and this , to convert all or any part of an Advance of any Type into any other Type or Types of Advance; that any conversion of any Fixed Rate Advance or Fixed Rate Loan shall be made on, and only on, the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
Right to Convert
Section 2.6
Section 2.7
Section 2.8
provided
(B) . Floating Rate Loans shall continue as Floating Rate Loans of the same Type unless and until such Floating Rate Loans are converted into Fixed Rate Loans. Fixed Rate Loans shall continue as Fixed Rate Loans until the end of the then applicable Interest Period therefor, at which time such Fixed Rate Loans shall be automatically converted into Base Rate Loans unless the applicable Borrower shall have given the Global Administrative Agent notice in accordance with requesting that, at the end of such Interest Period, such Fixed Rate Loans continue as Fixed Rate Loans.
Automatic Conversion and Continuation
Section 2.8(D)
(C) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in or , no Syndicated Global Loan may be converted into or continued as a Fixed Rate Loan except with the consent of the Required Lenders when any Default has occurred and is continuing.
No Conversion Post-Default
Section 2.8(A)
Section 2.8(B)
 
(D) . The applicable Borrower shall give the Global Administrative Agent irrevocable notice (a "") of each conversion of a Floating Rate Loan into a Fixed Rate Loan or continuation of a Fixed Rate Loan not later than the time prior to the date of the requested conversion or continuation which is consistent with the requisite time and notice required in connection with , specifying: (1) the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) of such conversion or continuation; (2) the amount and Type of the Syndicated Global Loan to be converted or continued; and (3) the amounts of Fixed Rate Loan(s) into which such Syndicated Global Loan is to be converted or continued and the duration of the Interest Periods applicable thereto.
Conversion/Continuation Notice
Conversion/Continuation Notice
Section 2.6(a)
2.9 [Reserved]
2.10 . (a) Each Syndicated Global Lender severally agrees that, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, any Global Borrower may request and receive Bid Rate Advances in Dollars under this from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the date occurring 30 days prior to the Termination Date in the manner set forth below; , , that, following the making of each Bid Rate Advance, the aggregate amount of the Advances then outstanding shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitment.
The Bid Rate Advances
Section 2.10
provided
however
(b) The procedures for the solicitation and acceptance of Bid Rate Loans are set forth below:
(i) The applicable Global Borrower may request a Bid Rate Advance under this by giving the Global Administrative Agent irrevocable notice at the office and location specified by the Global Administrative Agent, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Global Administrative Agent (a ""), specifying the date and aggregate amount of the proposed Bid Rate Advance, the maturity date for repayment of each Bid Rate Loan to be made as part of such Bid Rate Advance (which maturity date may not be earlier than, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction, the date occurring thirty days, and in the case of an Indexed Rate Auction, the date occurring one month after the date of the related Bid Rate Advance or later than, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction, the earlier of the day occurring 180 days after the date of such Bid Rate Advance and the Termination Date, and in the case of an Indexed Rate Auction, the earlier of the day occurring six months after the date of such Bid Rate Advance and the Termination Date), the interest payment date or dates relating thereto, and any other terms to be applicable to such Bid Rate Advance, not later than 10:00 a.m. (New York time) (A) one Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Bid Rate Advance, if the applicable Global Borrower shall specify in the Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice that the rates of interest to be offered by the Syndicated Global Lenders shall be absolute rates per annum (such type of solicitation being an "") and (B) five (5) Business Days prior to the date of the proposed Bid Rate Advance, if the applicable Global Borrower shall specify in the Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice that the rates of interest to be offered by the Syndicated Global Lenders shall be based on the Eurodollar Base Rate (such type of solicitation being an ""). The Global Administrative Agent shall, promptly following its receipt of a Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice under this , notify each Syndicated Global Lender of such request by sending such Syndicated Global Lender a copy of such Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice.
Section 2.10(b)
Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice
Absolute Rate Auction
Indexed Rate Auction
Section 2.10(b)
(ii) Each Syndicated Global Lender may, if, in its sole discretion, it elects to do so, irrevocably offer to make one or more Bid Rate Loans to the applicable Global Borrower as part of such proposed Bid Rate Advance at a rate or rates of interest specified by such Syndicated Global Lender in its sole discretion, by notifying the Global Administrative Agent (which shall
 
give prompt notice thereof to the applicable Global Borrower), before 11:00 a.m. (New York time) (or if such Syndicated Global Lender is the Global Administrative Agent, before 10:45 a.m. (New York time)) (A) on the date of such proposed Bid Rate Advance, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction, and (B) four Business Days before the date of such proposed Bid Rate Advance, in the case of an Indexed Rate Auction of the minimum amount and maximum amount of each Bid Rate Loan which such Syndicated Global Lender would be willing to make as part of such proposed Bid Rate Advance (which amounts may, subject to the proviso to the first sentence of , exceed such Syndicated Global Lender's Commitment), the rate or rates of interest, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction, or the spread or spreads with respect to the Eurodollar Base Rate, in the case of an Indexed Rate Auction, therefor and such Syndicated Global Lender's Lending Installation with respect to such Bid Rate Loan.
Section 2.10(a)
(iii) The applicable Global Borrower shall, in turn, before (A) 12:00 noon (New York time) on the date of such proposed Bid Rate Advance, in the case of an Absolute Rate Auction, and (B) 11:00 a.m. (New York time) three Business Days before the date of such proposed Bid Rate Advance, in the case of an Indexed Rate Auction for a Bid Rate Advance, either:
(x) cancel such Bid Rate Advance by giving the Global Administrative Agent notice to that effect; or
(y) accept, subject to , one or more of the offers made by any Syndicated Global Lender or Syndicated Global Lenders pursuant to , in its sole discretion, by giving notice to the Global Administrative Agent of the amount of each Bid Rate Loan (which amount shall be equal to or greater than the minimum amount, and equal to or less than the maximum amount, notified to the applicable Global Borrower by the Global Administrative Agent on behalf of such Syndicated Global Lender for such Bid Rate Loan pursuant to ) to be made by each Syndicated Global Lender as part of such Bid Rate Advance, and reject any remaining offers made by Syndicated Global Lenders pursuant to by giving the Global Administrative Agent notice to that effect.
Section 2.10(d)
Section 2.10(b)(ii)
Section 2.10(b)(ii)
Section 2.10(b)(ii)
(iv) If the applicable Global Borrower notifies the Global Administrative Agent that such Bid Rate Advance is canceled pursuant to , the Global Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice thereof to the Syndicated Global Lenders and such Bid Rate Advance shall not be made.
Section 2.10(b)(iii)(x)
(v) If the applicable Global Borrower accepts one or more of the offers made by any Syndicated Global Lender or Syndicated Global Lenders pursuant to , the Global Administrative Agent shall in turn promptly notify (A) each Syndicated Global Lender that has made an offer as described in of the date, and aggregate amount of such Bid Rate Advance and whether or not any offer or offers made by such Syndicated Global Lender pursuant to have been accepted by the applicable Global Borrower and (B) each Syndicated Global Lender that is to make a Bid Rate Loan as part of such Bid Rate Advance, of the amount of each Bid Rate Loan to be made by such Syndicated Global Lender as part of such Bid Rate Advance. Each Syndicated Global Lender that is to make a Bid Rate Loan as part of such Bid Rate Advance shall, not later than 3:00 p.m. (New York time) on the date of such Bid Rate Advance specified in the notice received from the Global Administrative Agent pursuant to  of the preceding sentence, make available for the account of its Lending Installation to the Global Administrative Agent at the Lending Installation of the Global Administrative Agent most recently designated by the Global Administrative Agent for this
Section 2.10(b)(iii)(y)
Section 2.10(b)(ii)
Section 2.10(b)(ii)
clause (A)
 
purpose, such Syndicated Global Lender's portion of such Bid Rate Advance, in same day funds in Dollars. Upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in and after receipt by the Global Administrative Agent of such funds, the Global Administrative Agent will make such funds available to the applicable Global Borrower at the Global Administrative Agent's aforesaid address. Promptly after each Bid Rate Advance, the Global Administrative Agent will notify each Syndicated Global Lender of the amount of such Bid Rate Advance, the consequent Bid Rate Reduction and the dates upon which such Bid Rate Reduction commenced and will terminate.
Article IV
(vi) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this , the applicable Global Borrower may elect at its own discretion to assume the responsibilities of the Global Administrative Agent in connection with the solicitation and acceptance of Bid Rate Loans as described in this section. In the event that the applicable Global Borrower makes the election described in this subsection, all notices to be given by such Borrower to the Global Administrative Agent pursuant to this shall be given by such Borrower directly to the Global Administrative Agent and the Syndicated Global Lenders, all notices to be given by the Global Administrative Agent to the Syndicated Global Lenders pursuant to this shall be given by such Borrower to the Syndicated Global Lenders, and all notices to be given by the Syndicated Global Lenders to the Global Administrative Agent pursuant to this shall be given by the Syndicated Global Lenders to such Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent. In addition, any fee payable to the Global Administrative Agent in connection with the Bid Rate Loans in connection with such Bid Rate Loans solicited and accepted by any Global Borrower pursuant to this clause (vi) is hereby waived.
Section 2.10(b)
Section 2.10(b)
Section 2.10(b)
Section 2.10(b)
(c) Each Bid Rate Advance shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of approximately $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and, following the making of each Bid Rate Advance, the Borrowers shall be in compliance with the limitation set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of .
Section 2.10(a)
(d) Each acceptance by the applicable Global Borrower pursuant to of the offers made in response to a Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice shall be treated as an acceptance of such offers in ascending order of the rates or margins, as applicable, at which the same were made but if, as a result thereof, two or more offers at the same such rate or margin would be partially accepted, then the amounts of the Bid Rate Loans in respect of which such offers are accepted shall be treated as being the amounts which bear the same proportion to one another as the respective amounts of the Bid Rate Loans so offered bear to one another but, in each case, rounded as the Global Administrative Agent (or the applicable Global Borrower in the event such Borrower runs the bid rate process under above) may consider necessary to ensure that the amount of each such Bid Rate Loan is approximately $500,000 or an integral multiple thereof.
Section 2.10(b)(iii)(y)
clause (b)(vi)
(e) Within the limits and on the conditions set forth in this , each Global Borrower may from time to time borrow under this , repay pursuant to , and reborrow under this .
Section 2.10
Section 2.10
Section 2.10(f)
Section 2.10
(f) The applicable Global Borrower shall repay to the Global Administrative Agent, for the account of each Syndicated Global Lender which has made a Bid Rate Loan to it, on the maturity date of such Bid Rate Loan (such maturity date being that specified by such Borrower for repayment of such Bid Rate Loan in the related Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice), or, if earlier, the acceleration of the Obligations pursuant to , the then unpaid principal amount of such Bid Rate Loan. No Borrower shall have the right to prepay any principal amount of any Bid Rate Loan without the consent of the applicable Syndicated Global Lender.
Section 8.1
 
(g) The applicable Global Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Bid Rate Loan made to it, from the date of such Bid Rate Loan to the date the principal amount of such Bid Rate Loan is repaid in full, at the rate of interest for such Bid Rate Loan specified by the Syndicated Global Lender making such Bid Rate Loan in the related notice submitted by such Syndicated Global Lender pursuant to , payable on the interest payment date or dates specified by such Borrower for such Bid Rate Loan in the related Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice and on any date on which such Bid Rate Loan is prepaid, whether by acceleration or otherwise. In the event the term of any Bid Rate Loan shall be longer than three months, interest thereon shall be payable not less frequently than once each three-month period during such term. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Bid Rate Advance Borrowing Notice, interest on Bid Rate Advances shall be calculated (a) for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 365-day year or, when appropriate, 366-day year for Bid Rate Advances made pursuant to an Indexed Rate Auction and (b) for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 360-day year for Bid Rate Advances made pursuant to an Absolute Rate Auction.
Section 2.10(b)(ii)
(h) Except as provided in above, in connection with each Bid Rate Loan, the applicable Global Borrower shall pay to the Global Administrative Agent the fee with respect thereto set forth in the relevant fee letter dated as of even date herewith between the Borrowers, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and the Global Administrative Agent.
clause (b)(vi)
2.11 . Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by any Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, the Global Administrative Agent may with the consent, and shall upon the request, of the Required Lenders require that such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided herein or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to Base Rate Advances as provided herein.
Default Rate
plus
2.12 . All payments of principal, interest, and fees hereunder to the Global Administrative Agent shall be made, without setoff, deduction or counterclaim (a) at the Global Administrative Agent's office at the applicable location at which such Advance was made in immediately available funds or at any other Lending Installation of the Global Administrative Agent specified in writing (by 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the day before the date when due) by the Global Administrative Agent to the applicable Borrower, by 12:00 noon local time in New York, New York on the date when due and shall be made ratably among the relevant Lenders (unless such amount is not to be shared ratably in accordance with the terms hereof). Each Advance shall be repaid or prepaid in Dollars in the amount borrowed and interest payable thereon shall be paid in Dollars. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, the obligation of any Borrower in respect of any Advance shall not be discharged by an amount paid in any currency other than Dollars or at another location other than the location designated by the Global Administrative Agent, whether pursuant to a judgment or otherwise, to the extent the amount so paid, on prompt conversion into Dollars and transfer to the relevant Lenders under normal banking procedure, does not yield the amount of Dollars due under the Loan Documents. In the event that any payment, whether pursuant to a judgment or otherwise, upon conversion and transfer, does not result in payment of the amount of Dollars due under the Loan Documents, such Lender shall have an independent cause of action against the applicable Borrower(s) for the currency deficit. Each payment delivered to the Global Administrative Agent for the account of any Lender shall be delivered promptly by the Global Administrative Agent to such Lender in the same type of funds which the Global Administrative Agent received at its address specified pursuant to or at any Lending Installation specified in a notice received by the Global Administrative Agent from such Lender.
Method of Payment
Article XIV
 
2.13 . Any Lender may request that the Loans made by it each be evidenced by the applicable Notes to evidence such Lender's Loans. In such event, each applicable Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender such Note(s) for such Loans payable to the order of such Lender. Thereafter, such Loans evidenced by such Note(s) and interest thereon shall at all times be represented by one or more Notes, except to the extent that any such Lender subsequently returns any such Note for cancellation. Each Borrower authorizes the applicable Lenders and the Global Administrative Agent to extend Advances, effect selections of Types of Advances and to transfer funds based on telephonic notices made by any person or persons that the Global Administrative Agent or Lender in good faith believes to be acting on behalf of such Borrower. Each Borrower agrees to deliver promptly to the Global Administrative Agent a written confirmation, signed by an Authorized Officer, if such confirmation is requested by the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender, of each telephonic notice. If the written confirmation differs in any material respect from the action taken by the Global Administrative Agent and Lenders, (i) the telephonic notice shall govern absent manifest error and (ii) the Global Administrative Agent or Lender, as applicable, shall promptly notify the Authorizing Officer who provided such confirmation of such difference.
Notes, Telephonic Notices
2.14 .
Promise to Pay; Interest and Fees; Interest Payment Dates; Interest and Fee Basis; Loan Accounts
(A) . Each Borrower unconditionally promises to pay when due the principal amount of each Loan made to it and all other Obligations incurred by it, and to pay all unpaid interest accrued thereon, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Promise to Pay
(B) . Interest accrued on each Floating Rate Loan shall be payable on each Payment Date, commencing with the first such date to occur after the date hereof, and at maturity (whether by acceleration or otherwise). Interest accrued on each Fixed Rate Loan shall be payable on the last day of its applicable Interest Period, on any date on which the Fixed Rate Loan is prepaid, whether by acceleration or otherwise, and at maturity. Interest accrued on each Fixed Rate Loan having an Interest Period longer than three months shall also be payable on the last day of each three-month interval during such Interest Period. Interest accrued on each Bid Rate Loan shall be payable as provided in . Interest accrued on the principal balance of all other Obligations shall be payable in arrears (i) upon repayment thereof in full, (ii) if not theretofore paid in full, at the time such other Obligation becomes due and payable (whether by acceleration or otherwise) and (iii) if not theretofore paid in full, on demand, commencing on the first such day following the date such Obligation became payable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents.
Interest Payment Dates
Section 2.10(g)
(C) . The relevant Borrowers shall, or shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to, pay to the Global Administrative Agent, for the account of each relevant Lender in accordance with their Pro Rata Shares, on arrangements satisfactory to Harley and the Global Administrative Agent, a commitment fee accruing at the rate of the Applicable Commitment Fee Rate per annum from and after the date hereof until the Termination Date on the average daily unused amount of the Aggregate Commitment during a given calendar quarter calculated on the last Business Day of such calendar quarter. All such commitment fees payable under this  shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December occurring after the date hereof and, in addition, on the Termination Date.
Fees
clause (C)
(D) . Interest on all Loans (other than Base Rate Loans with respect to which interest is calculated by reference to the Alternate Base Rate) and all fees shall be calculated for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 360-day year. Interest on Base Rate Loans with respect to which interest is calculated by reference to the Alternate Base Rate shall be calculated for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 365-day year or, when appropriate, 366-day year. Interest shall be payable for the day an
Interest and Fee Basis
 
Obligation is incurred but not for the day of any payment on the amount paid if payment is received by the times and in the offices required under . If any payment of principal of or interest on a Loan or any payment of any other Obligations shall become due on a day which is not a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and, in the case of a principal payment, such extension of time shall be included in computing interest in connection with such payment.
Section 2.12
(E) . Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts (a "") evidencing the Obligations of the Borrowers to such Lender owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amount of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
Loan Account
Loan Account
(F) . The entries made in the Register and each Loan Account shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, unless any Borrower objects to information contained in the Register and each Loan Account within thirty (30) days of such Borrower's receipt of such information.
Entries Binding
2.15 . Promptly after receipt thereof, the Global Administrative Agent will notify each relevant Lender of the contents of each Aggregate Commitment reduction notice, Borrowing Notice, Continuation/Conversion Notice and repayment notice received by it hereunder. The Global Administrative Agent will notify each relevant Lender of the interest rate applicable to each Fixed Rate Loan promptly upon determination of such interest rate.
Notification of Advances, Interest Rates, Prepayments and Aggregate Commitment Reductions
2.16 . Each Lender may book its Loans at any Lending Installation reasonably selected by such Lender and may change its Lending Installation from time to time. All terms of this Agreement shall apply to any such Lending Installation and any Notes shall be deemed held by each Lender for the benefit of such Lending Installation. Each Lender may, by written or facsimile notice to the Global Administrative Agent and Harley, designate a Lending Installation through which Loans will be made by it and for whose account Loan payments are to be made.
Lending Installations
2.17 . Unless a Borrower or a Lender, as the case may be, notifies the Global Administrative Agent prior to the date (or time, in the case of a Floating Rate Loan) on which it is scheduled to make payment to the Global Administrative Agent of (i) in the case of a Lender, the proceeds of a Loan or (ii) in the case of a Borrower, a payment of principal, interest or fees to the Global Administrative Agent for the account of the relevant Lenders, that it does not intend to make such payment, the Global Administrative Agent may assume that such payment has been made. The Global Administrative Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the amount of such payment available to the intended recipient in reliance upon such assumption. If such Lender or Borrower, as the case may be, has not in fact made such payment to the Global Administrative Agent, the recipient of such payment shall, on demand by the Global Administrative Agent, repay to the Global Administrative Agent the amount so made available together with interest thereon in respect of each day during the period commencing on the date such amount was so made available by the Global Administrative Agent until the date the Global Administrative Agent recovers such amount at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of payment by a Lender, the Federal Funds Effective Rate for such day or (ii) in the case of payment by a Borrower, the interest rate applicable to the relevant Loan (including without limitation pursuant to if applicable).
Non-Receipt of Funds by the Global Administrative Agent
Section 2.11
2.18 . This Agreement shall be effective until the Termination Date. Notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement on the Termination Date, until all of the Obligations (other than contingent indemnity and reimbursement obligations, to the extent such obligations have not accrued) shall have been fully paid and satisfied and all financing arrangements under the Loan
Termination Date
Documents among the Borrowers and the Lenders shall have been terminated, all of the rights and remedies under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall survive.
 
3.1 . If any law or any governmental or quasi-governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) adopted after the date of this Agreement and having general applicability to all banks (or a Lender's holding company or applicable Lending Installation for purposes of this Agreement) within the jurisdiction in which such Lender operates (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, the effect of and phasing in of capital requirements or other regulations or guidelines passed prior to the date of this Agreement), or any interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the interpretation or application thereof, or the compliance of any Lender therewith (any of the foregoing, a ""; provided, however, that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith by any Governmental Authority charged with the interpretation or application thereof and (ii) all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "", regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued to the extent having general applicability to all banks (or a Lender's holding company or applicable Lending Installation for purposes of this Agreement) within the jurisdiction in which the applicable Lender (or its holding company or such Lending Installation) operates),
Yield Protection
Change in Law
Change in Law
(i) subjects the Global Administrative Agent, any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation to any Taxes on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes, (B) Excluded Taxes, and (C) Other Taxes),
(ii) imposes or increases or deems applicable any reserve, assessment, insurance charge, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation with respect to its Fixed Rate Loans, or
(iii) imposes any other condition the result of which is to increase the cost to any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation of making, funding or maintaining the Fixed Rate Loans or reduces any amount received by any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation in connection with Fixed Rate Loans, or requires any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation to make any payment calculated by reference to the amount of Loans held or interest or fee received by it, by an amount deemed material by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Person of making, renewing or maintaining its Loans or to reduce any amount received under this Agreement, then, within 15 days after receipt by the relevant Borrower of written demand by such Person pursuant to , such Borrower shall pay such Person that portion of such increased expense incurred or reduction in an amount received which such Person determines is necessary to compensate such Person for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered as reasonably determined by such Person (which determination shall be made in good faith (and not on an arbitrary or capricious basis) and consistent with similarly situated customers of such Person under agreements having provisions similar to this after consideration of such factors as such Person then reasonably determines to be relevant).
Section 3.6
Section 3.1
 
3.2 . If a Lender determines (i) the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender, any Lending Installation of such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender is increased as a result of a "Change" (as defined below), and (ii) such increase in capital will result in an increase in the cost to such Lender of maintaining its Loans or its obligation to make Loans hereunder, then, within 15 days after receipt by the relevant Borrower of written demand by such Lender pursuant to , such Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount necessary to compensate for any shortfall in the rate of return on the portion of such increased capital which such Lender determines is attributable to this Agreement, its Loans or its obligation to make Loans hereunder (after taking into account such Lender's policies as to capital adequacy) as such amount is reasonably determined by such Lender (which determination shall be made in good faith (and not on an arbitrary or capricious basis) and consistent with similarly situated customers of the applicable Lender under agreements having provisions similar to this after consideration of such factors as such Lender then reasonably determines to be relevant). "" means (i) any change after the date of this Agreement in the "Risk-Based Capital Guidelines" (as defined below) excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, the effect of any phasing in of such Risk-Based Capital Guidelines or any other capital requirements, in each case passed prior to the date hereof, or (ii) any adoption of or change in any other law, governmental or quasi-governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline, interpretation, or directive (whether or not having the force of law) after the date of this Agreement and having general applicability to all banks and financial institutions within the jurisdiction in which such Lender operates which affects the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by any Lender or any Lending Installation or any corporation controlling any Lender (, , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith by any Governmental Authority charged with the interpretation or application thereof and (ii) all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "", regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued to the extent having general applicability to all banks (or a Lender's holding company or applicable Lending Installation for purposes of this Agreement) within the jurisdiction in which the applicable Lender (or its holding company or such Lending Installation) operates). "" means (i) the risk-based capital guidelines in effect in the United States on the date of this Agreement, including transition rules, and (ii) the corresponding capital regulations promulgated by regulatory authorities outside the United States.
Changes in Capital Adequacy Regulations
Section 3.6
Section 3.2
Change
provided
however
Change
Risk-Based Capital Guidelines
3.3 . (a) If (i) any Lender determines that maintenance of any of its Fixed Rate Loans at a suitable Lending Installation would violate any applicable law, rule, regulation or directive, whether or not having the force of law, or (ii) the Required Lenders with respect to Fixed Rate Advances determine that (x) deposits of a type, currency and maturity appropriate to match fund Fixed Rate Advances are not available or (y) the interest rate applicable to a Fixed Rate Advance does not accurately reflect the cost of making or maintaining such a Fixed Rate Advance, then the Global Administrative Agent shall suspend the availability of Fixed Rate Advances of the affected Type and, in the case of any occurrence set forth in clause (i), require any affected Fixed Rate Advances to be repaid or, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, at the option of the applicable U.S. Borrower, converted to Base Rate Advances.
Availability of Types of Advances
(b) If the Index is unavailable, (i) the Global Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders of such unavailability, (ii) the Borrowers and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to agree upon an alternative method for establishing the Applicable Margin, (iii) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, convert into a Floating Rate Advance, and (iv) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the earlier of the time that (x) the Global
 
Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders that the Index is available or (y) the Borrowers and the Lenders agree on an alternative method for establishing the Applicable Margin; that (A) with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances and Floating Rate Advances during the period of the first 60 days after the notification by the Global Administrative Agent to the Borrowers and the Lenders of the unavailability of the Index and an alternative method for determining the Applicable Margin has not been agreed upon by the Borrowers and the Lenders, the Applicable Margin and Floating Rate Margin shall be based on an Applicable Margin and Floating Rate Margin, respectively, based on the Index in effect on the day immediately prior to the unavailability of the Index and (B) after such 60-day period if the Index remains unavailable and an alternative method for determining the Applicable Margin has not been agreed upon by the Borrowers and the Lenders, the Applicable Margin and the Floating Rate Margin, as calculated pursuant to the foregoing clause (A), shall be increased by (i) 0.25% on the first date following the expiration of such 60-day period (the "") and (ii) an additional 0.25% on each succeeding 90-day anniversary of the Rate Increase Date, in each case so long as the Index remains unavailable and an alternative method for determining the Applicable Margin has not been agreed upon by the Borrowers and the Lenders.
provided
Rate Increase Date
3.4 . If any payment of a Fixed Rate Advance or Bid Rate Advance occurs on a date which is not the last day of the applicable Interest Period in the case of a Fixed Rate Advance or the applicable maturity date in the case of a Bid Rate Advance, whether because of acceleration, prepayment, assignment (to the extent such assignment is effected pursuant to ) or otherwise, or a Fixed Rate Advance or Bid Rate Advance is not made or continued on the date specified by any Borrower for any reason other than default by the Lenders, Harley and such Borrower agrees to indemnify each Lender for any loss or cost (including lost profits) incurred by it resulting therefrom, including, without limitation, any loss or cost in liquidating or employing deposits acquired to fund or maintain the Fixed Rate Advance or Bid Rate Advance, as the case may be.
Funding Indemnification
Section 3.8
3.5 . (i) Unless such deduction is required by applicable law, all payments by any Borrower or any Guarantor to or for the account of any Lender or the Global Administrative Agent hereunder or under any Note shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all Taxes. If any Borrower or any Guarantor shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Lender or the Global Administrative Agent, then, except as otherwise specifically provided in this , (a) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this ) such Lender or the Global Administrative Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (b) such Borrower or Guarantor, as applicable, shall make such deductions, (c) such Borrower or Guarantor, as applicable, shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant authority in accordance with applicable law and (d) such Borrower or Guarantor, as applicable, shall furnish to the Global Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof, or other evidence of such payment that is reasonably satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent.
Taxes
Section 3.5
Section 3.5
(ii) In addition, except as otherwise specifically provided in this , each Borrower and Guarantor hereby agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made hereunder by the relevant Borrower or Guarantor to the relevant Lender, or under any Note (but excluding any such taxes, charges or levies in respect of any assignment, sale or transfer or participation by any Lender or the Global Administrative Agent) or from the execution or delivery of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any Note ().
Section 3.5
"Other Taxes"
 
(iii) Each Borrower and Guarantor hereby agree to indemnify the Global Administrative Agent and each Lender for the full amount of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed on amounts payable under this ) paid by the Global Administrative Agent or such Lender and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto; that each Borrower and Guarantor shall not be required to so indemnify to the extent any relevant amount is actually compensated for under any other provision of this Agreement. Payments due under this indemnification shall be made within 30 days of the date the Global Administrative Agent or such Lender makes demand therefor pursuant to .
Section 3.5
provided
Section 3.6
(iv) At the time or times reasonably requested by a Borrower, a Guarantor, or the Global Administrative Agent, any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from, or reduction of, any applicable withholding Tax with respect to any payments under this Agreement or under a Note shall deliver to such Borrower, Guarantor, or the Global Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation reasonably requested by such Borrower, Guarantor, or the Global Administrative Agent as will permit such payments to be made without, or at a reduced rate of, withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by a Borrower, a Guarantor, or the Global Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by law or reasonably requested by such Borrower, Guarantor, or the Global Administrative Agent as will enable such Borrower, Guarantor, or the Global Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to any withholding (including backup withholding) or information reporting requirements. Upon the reasonable request of a Borrower, a Guarantor, or the Global Administrative Agent, any Lender shall update any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this . If any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this Section expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect with respect to a Lender, such Lender shall promptly (and in any event within 10 days after such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy) notify each Borrower, each Guarantor, and the Global Administrative Agent in writing of such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy and update the form or certification if it is legally eligible to do so. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Lender shall deliver to each Borrower, each Guarantor, and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies reasonably requested by such Borrower, Guarantor, or the Administrative Agent) on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a party hereto, duly completed and executed copies of whichever of the following is applicable:
Section 3.5(iv)
(a) in the case of a Lender other than a Non-U.S. Lender, IRS Form W-9 certifying that payments made to such Lender under this Agreement or under a Note are exempt from U.S. Federal backup withholding tax;
(b) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (1) with respect to payments of interest under this Agreement or under a Note, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "interest" article of such tax treaty, and (2) with respect to any other applicable payments under this Agreement or under a Note, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "business profits" or "other income" article of such tax treaty;
(c) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender for whom payments under this Agreement or under a Note constitute income that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States by such Lender (or, in the event that such Lender is a Disregarded Entity, by the owner of such Lender), IRS Form W-8ECI;
(d) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code both (1) IRS Form W-8BEN and (2) a certificate to the effect that such Lender (or, in the event that such Lender is a Disregarded Entity, the owner of such Lender) is neither (A) a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" (within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code) of the applicable Borrower, nor (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code;
 
(e) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender (or, in the event that the Non-U.S. Lender is a Disregarded Entity, the owner of such non-U.S. Lender) that (for U.S. federal income tax purposes) is not the beneficial owner of payments made under this Agreement or under a Note (including a partnership or a participating Lender), (1) an IRS Form W-8IMY on behalf of itself, and (2) the relevant forms prescribed in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of this Section 3.5(iv) that would be required of each such beneficial owner or partner of such partnership if such beneficial owner or partner were a Lender; provided, however, that if the Lender is a partnership and one or more of its partners are claiming the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code, such Lender may provide, on behalf of such partners, a certificate of the type described in clause (d)(2) of this Section 3.5(iv); or
(f) any other form prescribed by law as a basis for claiming exemption from, or a reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax together with such supplementary documentation necessary to enable each Borrower, each Guarantor, and the Global Administrative Agent to determine the amount of Tax (if any) required by law to be withheld.
(v) For any period during which a Non-U.S. Lender has failed to provide a Borrower or a Guarantor with the documentation required by (unless such failure is due to a change in treaty, law or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, occurring subsequent to the date on which such documentation originally was required to be provided), such Non-U.S. Lender shall not be entitled to additional amounts or indemnification under this with respect to Indemnified Taxes imposed by the United States; that, should a Non-U.S. Lender which is otherwise exempt from or subject to a reduced rate of withholding tax become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver the documentation required by , the applicable Borrower or Guarantor shall take such steps as such Non-U.S. Lender shall reasonably request to assist such Non-U.S. Lender to recover such Taxes.
Section 3.5(iv)
Section 3.5
provided
Section 3.5(iv)
(vi) If a payment made to a Lender under this Agreement or under a Note would be subject to U.S. Federal withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to each Borrower, each Guarantor, and the Global Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by a Borrower, a Guarantor or the Global Administrative Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by such Borrower or Guarantor or the Global Administrative Agent as may be necessary for such Person to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has or has not complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA and, as necessary, to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this , "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement, whether or not such amendments are included in the definition set forth in .
Section 3.5(vi)
Article I
(vii) Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Global Administrative Agent for any Taxes (but, in the case of any Indemnified Taxes and Other Taxes, only to the extent that the Companies have not already indemnified the Global Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes and Other Taxes without limiting the obligation of the Companies to do so in accordance with the Loan Documents) attributable to such Lenders that are paid or payable by the Global Administrative Agent in connection with any Loan Document and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such amounts were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental
 
Authority. The indemnity under this shall be paid within 10 days after the Global Administrative Agent delivers to the applicable Lender a certificate stating the amount so paid or payable by the Global Administrative Agent. Such certificate shall be conclusive of the amount so paid or payable absent manifest error.
Section 3.5(vii)
(viii) [Reserved]
(ix) [Reserved]
(x) [Reserved]
(xi) If a Borrower or Guarantor pays an amount under this , or is required to make a deduction or withholding in relation to a payment hereunder or under any Note and account for the same to the relevant tax authority, which gives or may give rise to a Tax Credit for the recipient of that payment (the ""), the Recipient shall, promptly upon utilisation or receipt of such Tax Credit, pay an amount to such Borrower or the relevant Guarantor which will leave it (after that payment) in the same after-Tax position as it would have been in had the original amount paid under this (or withheld or deducted pursuant to applicable law) not been required to have been made, withheld or deducted; nothing in this  shall require any Lender to make available its tax return (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential).
Section 3.5
Recipient
Section 3.5
provided that
clause (xi)
(xii) If (i) a Lender or the Global Administrative Agent assigns, transfers or sells all or any portion of its rights and/or delegates all or any portion of its obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or under a Note or changes its Lending Installation for the purposes of this Agreement, and (ii) as a direct result of circumstances existing at the date of the assignment, transfer, sale, delegation or change, any Borrower or Guarantor would be obliged to pay any incremental amount under this , then the transferee or Lender acting through its new Lending Installation shall only be entitled to receive payment under this to the same extent that the previous Lender or the Lender acting through its previous Lending Installation would have been entitled if no such transaction had taken place. If a Lender sells a participation in all or any part of its rights or obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the participant shall only be entitled to receive payment under this to the extent that the Lender selling the participation would have been entitled if no such participation had taken place.
Section 3.5
Section 3.5
Section 3.5
3.6 . To the extent reasonably possible, each Lender shall designate an alternate Lending Installation with respect to its Fixed Rate Loans to reduce any liability of the relevant Borrower or the Guarantors to such Lender under and or to avoid the unavailability of a Type of Advance under , so long as such designation is not materially disadvantageous to such Lender. Each Lender requiring compensation pursuant to this shall notify the relevant Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent in writing of any Change, law, policy, rule, guideline or directive giving rise to such demand for compensation; provided that the relevant Borrower or Guarantor shall not be required to pay such amounts to the extent such amounts accrued prior to the date that is 180 days prior to the date of such notice; provided further that, if the circumstances giving rise to such amounts are retroactive, then such 180-day period shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof. Any demand for compensation pursuant to this shall be in writing and shall state the amount due, if any, under , , or and shall set forth in reasonable detail the calculations upon which such Lender determined such amount. Such written demand shall be rebuttably presumed correct for all purposes. Determination of amounts payable under such Sections in connection with a Fixed Rate Loan shall be calculated as though each Lender funded its Fixed Rate Loan through the purchase of a deposit of the type, currency and maturity corresponding to the deposit used as a reference in determining the applicable fixed rate of interest with respect to such Loan, whether in fact that is the case or not. The obligations of the Borrowers and the Guarantors under , , and shall survive payment of the Obligations and termination of this Agreement.
Mitigation; Lender Statements; Survival of Indemnity
Sections 3.1
3.2
Section 3.3
Article III
Article III
Section 3.1
3.2
3.4
3.5
Sections 3.1
3.2
3.4
3.5
 
3.7 [Reserved]
3.8 . If, any Lender requests compensation under or , or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount pursuant to , or if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then Harley may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Global Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in ), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement (other than any outstanding Bid Rate Loans held by it) to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) in the case of an assignment to an assignee which is not a Lender, Harley shall have received the prior written consent of the Global Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans (other than Bid Rate Loans) and participations in the relevant Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or Harley (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments with respect to the assignee Lender.
Replacement of Affected Lenders
Section 3.1
3.2
Section 3.5
Section 13.3
provided
Sections 3.1
3.2
Section 3.5
4.1 . This Agreement shall not become effective nor shall the Lenders be required to make the initial Loans unless (i) since December 31, 2010, no event, development or circumstance shall have occurred that has had, or could reasonably be expected to have, a material adverse effect on the business, assets, operations or financial condition of Harley and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, (ii) the Global Administrative Agent shall have received evidence of an effective amendment to the Existing 3-Year Credit Agreement making certain conforming changes to the Existing 3-Year Credit Agreement to correspond with the terms of this Agreement other than in respect of pricing and (iii) the Borrowers shall have (a) paid all fees required to be paid, and all expenses required to be paid for which invoices have been presented reasonably in advance of the Closing Date, in connection with the execution of this Agreement, (b) furnished to the Global Administrative Agent, with sufficient copies (other than in the case of any Notes) for each of the Lenders, such documents as the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender or its counsel may have reasonably requested, including, without limitation, all of the documents reflected on the List of Closing Documents attached as to this Agreement, (c) obtained all governmental and third party approvals necessary in connection with the financing contemplated hereby and the continuing operations of Harley and its Subsidiaries (including the Borrowers) and such approvals remain in full force and effect, (d) delivered to the Lenders (1) audited consolidated financial statements of Harley (on a Consolidated basis), (2) unaudited Consolidated financial statements of Harley (excluding HDFS and its Subsidiaries), (3) audited Consolidated financial statements of HDFS and its Subsidiaries (on a Consolidated basis), in the case of each of the foregoing ,  and , for the two most recent fiscal years ended prior to the Closing Date as to which such financial statements are available and (4) financial statement projections of (A) Harley (on a Consolidated basis), (B) Harley (excluding HDFS and its Subsidiaries) and (C) HDFS and its Subsidiaries, in the case of each of the foregoing ,  and , for the 2011 fiscal year, together with key underlying assumptions in reasonable detail and (e) delivered evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent of the payment of all principal, interest, fees and premiums, if any, on all Indebtedness under the Existing Credit Agreement, and the termination of the applicable agreements relating thereto, all taking effect concurrently with the effectiveness of this Agreement; that any Lender hereunder which is also a "Lender" under the Existing Credit Agreement hereby waives any requirement of five (5) Business Days notice by the "Borrowers" under the Existing Credit Agreement prior to the reduction of the commitments thereunder and the termination thereof.
Initial Loans
Exhibit D
clauses (1)
(2)
(3)
clauses (A)
(B)
(C)
provided
 
4.2 . No Lender shall be required to make any Loan unless on the applicable Borrowing Date:
Each Loan
(i) at the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Advance or Loan, no Default or Unmatured Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(ii) the representations and warranties contained in are true and correct in all material respects as of such Borrowing Date, except for representations and warranties made with reference solely to an earlier date, which representations and warranties shall be true and correct as of such earlier date; , that the representations set forth in and shall be deemed to be made only (1) on and as of the Closing Date, (2) on and as of each date (if any) on which the Lenders agree to extend the Termination Date and (3) on and as of the effective date of any increase in the Commitments (if any).
Article V
provided
Sections 5.1.6
5.1.7
Each Borrowing Notice with respect to each Loan or Advance shall constitute a representation and warranty by the applicable Borrower that the conditions contained in and  will have been satisfied as of the date of such Loan or Advance.
Sections 4.2(i)
(ii)
5.1 . Each of the Companies represents and warrants to the Lenders and the Global Administrative Agent as follows as of the Closing Date and thereafter on each date as and to the extent required by :
Representations and Warranties
Section 4.2
5.1.1 . Each of the Companies and each Material Subsidiary is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization.
Corporate Existence and Standing
5.1.2 . The execution, delivery and performance by each of the Companies of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to be delivered by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are within such Company's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) such Company's charter or by-laws or (ii) law or any indenture or other agreement evidencing debt for borrowed money in an outstanding principal balance in excess of $25,000,000 or any material contractual restriction binding on or affecting any Company.
Corporate Power and Authority; No Conflict
5.1.3 . No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required as a condition to the due execution, delivery and performance by the Companies of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents to be delivered by it.
No Authorization or Approval
5.1.4 . This Agreement has been, and each of the other Loan Documents to be delivered by each Company when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by such Company. This Agreement is, and each of the other Loan Documents when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and binding obligation of each Company enforceable against such Company in accordance with their respective terms (subject to the effect of bankruptcy and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity).
Execution, Delivery and Enforceability
 
5.1.5 . The Consolidated balance sheet of Harley and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2010, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of Harley and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of Ernst & Young LLP, independent public accountants copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present in all material respects the Consolidated financial condition of Harley and its Subsidiaries as at such date and the Consolidated results of the operations of Harley and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such date, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
Financial Statements
5.1.6 . Since December 31, 2010, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
Material Adverse Change
5.1.7 . There is no pending or threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding, including, without limitation, any Environmental Action, affecting Harley or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Litigation
5.1.8 . No Borrower is engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulations T, U and X issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used, directly or indirectly, to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of such Board of Governors.
Regulations T, U and X
5.1.9 . No Borrower is an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Status
5.1.10 . The Companies have disclosed to the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of their Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to them, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The Information Memorandum and the other reports, financial statements, certificates or other information furnished by or on behalf of the Companies or any Subsidiary to the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), collectively and taken as a whole, did not when furnished contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained therein not materially misleading in light of the circumstances under which statements are made; that, with respect to projected financial information contained therein, the Companies represent only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by them to be reasonable (it being understood and agreed that projected financial information is simply an estimate, and there is no guarantee that projected results will in fact be achieved).
Disclosure
provided
5.1.11 . No Unmatured Default or Default has occurred and is continuing.
No Default
 
6.1 . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, each Company will:
Affirmative Covenants
6.1.1 . Comply, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to comply, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA and Environmental Laws, in each case the violation of which would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
6.1.2 . Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all income and other material taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its Property and (ii) all lawful claims that, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its Property (other than Liens of the type described in  of the definition of ""); , , that neither Harley nor any of its Material Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles, unless and until any Lien resulting therefrom attaches to its Property and becomes enforceable against its other creditors.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
clause (b)
Permitted Liens
provided
however
6.1.3 . Maintain, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which Harley or such Subsidiary operates; , , that Harley and its Subsidiaries may self-insure to the same extent as other companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which Harley or such Subsidiary operates and to the extent consistent with prudent business practice.
Maintenance of Insurance
provided
however
6.1.4 . Preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that Harley and such Subsidiaries may consummate any transaction permitted under and that neither Harley nor any of its Material Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right or franchise if Harley or such Subsidiary shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of Harley or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to Harley, such Subsidiary or the Lenders.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
provided
however
Section 6.2.3
provided
further
6.1.5 . At any reasonable time and from time to time and (so long as no Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing) upon reasonable notice, permit the Global Administrative Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, Harley and any of its Material Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of Harley and any of its Material Subsidiaries with any of their officers and with their independent certified public accountants; that unless an Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing, Harley shall only be required to reimburse the Global Administrative Agent and each Lender for the expenses incurred by the Global Administrative Agent and each Lender for one such examination and visit by the Global Administrative Agent and each Lender in any calendar year.
Visitation Rights
provided
6.1.6 . Keep, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries, in all material respects, shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of Harley and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
Keeping of Books
 
6.1.7 . Maintain and preserve, and cause its Material Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its properties that are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except to the extent the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
6.1.8 . Conduct, and cause its Material Subsidiaries to conduct, all transactions otherwise permitted under this Agreement with any of their Affiliates other than Harley or a wholly-owned Subsidiary of Harley on terms that are fair and reasonable and no less favorable to such Company or its Material Subsidiaries, as applicable, than it would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate; that the foregoing shall not restrict or otherwise prohibit transactions between or among Harley and its Subsidiaries (to the extent Harley owns, directly or indirectly, at least 90% of the equity interests in each such Subsidiary) and not involving any other Affiliate.
Transactions with Affiliates
provided
6.1.9 . Furnish to the Global Administrative Agent:
Reporting Requirements
(a) as soon as available and in any event no later than the date which is the earlier of (i) sixty (60) days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of Harley and (ii) the date the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for such quarter of Harley would have been required to have been filed under the rules and regulations of the Commission giving effect to any automatic extension available thereunder for filing of such form, the Consolidated balance sheet of Harley and its Subsidiaries and the Consolidated balance sheet of HDFS and its Subsidiaries, in each case as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of Harley and its Subsidiaries and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of HDFS and its Subsidiaries, in each case for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to the absence of footnotes and to year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer or treasurer of Harley (on behalf of Harley and HDFS) as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certificates of the chief financial officer or treasurer of Harley as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with ;
Section 6.3
(b) as soon as available and in any event no later than the date which is the earlier of (i) one hundred twenty (120) days after the end of each fiscal year of Harley and (ii) the date the Annual Report on Form 10-K for such fiscal year of Harley would have been required to have been filed under the rules and regulations of the Commission giving effect to any automatic extension available thereunder for filing of such form, a copy of the annual audit report for such year for Harley and its Subsidiaries, containing the Consolidated balance sheet of Harley and its Subsidiaries and the Consolidated balance sheet of HDFS and its Subsidiaries, in each case as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of Harley and its Subsidiaries and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of HDFS and its Subsidiaries, in each case for such fiscal year, and in each case accompanied by an opinion ((1) without a "going concern" or like qualification or like exception and (2) other than a qualification permitted by the Commission regarding the internal controls of a company acquired during such period pursuant to a material acquisition by Harley or any Subsidiary, without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) acceptable to the Required Lenders by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent public accountants acceptable to the Required Lenders and certificates of the chief financial officer or treasurer of Harley (on behalf of Harley and HDFS) as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with ;
Section 6.3
 
(c) as soon as possible and in any event within five (5) Business Days after an executive officer of Harley knows or should have known of the occurrence of each Default or Unmatured Default continuing, a statement of the chief financial officer or treasurer of Harley setting forth details of such Default or Unmatured Default and the action that Harley has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
(d) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that Harley sends to any of its securityholders as such, and copies of all reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K (or their equivalents) and registration statements (other than the exhibits thereto and any registration statements on Form S-8 or its equivalent) that Harley or any Subsidiary files with the Commission or any national securities exchange, excluding any of the foregoing to the extent related solely to a Permitted Finance Receivables Securitization (unless such report constitutes a notice of default or acceleration);
(e) promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator affecting Harley or any of its Subsidiaries of the type described in ; and
Section 5.1.7(ii)
(f) such other information respecting Harley or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Global Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
Financial statements (other than the certificate of the chief financial officer or the treasurer) required to be delivered pursuant to clauses (a), (b) and (d) of this may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which such financial statements are filed for public availability on the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System; that Harley shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Global Administrative Agent of the filing of any such financial statements.
Section 6.1.9
provided
6.1.10 . Each Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loans to provide funds for the working capital needs and other general corporate purposes of such Borrower and its Subsidiaries and to repay outstanding Indebtedness (including, without limitation, maturing commercial paper of a U.S. Borrower).
Use of Proceeds
6.1.11 .
Opco Guarantors
(a) . At any time prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date and as promptly as possible but in any event within thirty (30) days (or such later date as may be agreed upon by the Global Administrative Agent) after any Person becomes a Material Subsidiary (based on Harley's financial position and results as of the end of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are available but giving effect on a pro forma basis to such Person becoming a Material Subsidiary), Harley shall provide the Global Administrative Agent with written notice thereof setting forth information in reasonable detail describing the material assets of such Person and shall cause each such Person that is a Material Domestic Opco Subsidiary to deliver to the Global Administrative Agent a Joinder Agreement in substantially the form of (a "") pursuant to which such Material Domestic Opco Subsidiary agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Guarantee, such Joinder Agreement to be accompanied by appropriate corporate or equivalent resolutions, other corporate or equivalent documentation and legal opinions (which may include inside counsel to such Material Subsidiary for certain matters consistent with the matters covered in the inside counsel opinion delivered on the Closing Date) in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent and its counsel.
Guaranty
Exhibit F
Joinder Agreement
 
(b) . If, prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, any Opco Guarantor ceases to be a Material Domestic Opco Subsidiary (based on Harley's financial position and results as of the end of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are available but giving effect on a pro forma basis to such Person ceasing to be a Material Subsidiary), Harley may provide the Global Administrative Agent with written notice thereof, and, upon receipt by the Global Administrative Agent of such notice, such Domestic Subsidiary shall no longer be an Opco Guarantor and shall be automatically released from the Guarantee and its obligations thereunder shall be terminated; that if such Domestic Subsidiary shall subsequently become a Material Domestic Opco Subsidiary at any time prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, such Domestic Subsidiary shall continue to be subject to the guarantor requirements of subsection (a) above, if applicable. If, prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, all or substantially all (but in any event greater than 50%) of the assets of, or all of the equity interests owned by Harley and/or its Subsidiaries in, a Material Domestic Opco Subsidiary are being sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of pursuant to a transaction permitted by this Agreement, then, upon the consummation of such transaction, such Domestic Subsidiary shall no longer be an Opco Guarantor and shall be automatically released from the Guarantee and its obligations thereunder shall be terminated. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section 6.1.11 to the contrary, the Opco Guarantors shall be released pursuant to Article XII.
Release
provided
6.2 . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, each of the Companies will not:
Negative Covenants
6.2.1 . Permit any Material Subsidiaries (excluding HDFS and HDFC) to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except any one or more of the following types of Indebtedness:
Subsidiary Indebtedness
(a) the Obligations and any other Indebtedness created under the Loan Documents;
(b) Indebtedness existing or contemplated on the Closing Date and set forth on and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness with Indebtedness of a similar type to the extent that such extension, renewal or replacement does not increase the principal amount thereof;
Schedule 6.2.1(b)
(c) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary of Harley incurred pursuant to any Permitted Finance Receivables Securitization (including, without limitation, any Permitted Securitization Recourse Obligations);
(d) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary of Harley to any Company or any other Subsidiary of Harley;
(e) Indebtedness subject to a Lien permitted to secure such Indebtedness pursuant to ;
Section 6.2.2
(f) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary as an account party in respect of trade letters of credit;
(g) guarantees in respect of Indebtedness of Harley or any Subsidiary of Harley that is otherwise permitted hereunder;
 
(h) Indebtedness arising under capitalized leases and purchase money obligations, in each case to finance the purchase, repair or improvement of fixed or capital assets, and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof, provided that any Lien in respect thereof shall be subject to the proviso in ;
Section 6.2.2(b)
(i) Indebtedness assumed in connection with any acquisition not prohibited under this Agreement (or, to the extent the principal amount thereof does not exceed the Indebtedness refinanced or replaced, Indebtedness incurred to refinance or replace any Indebtedness that would otherwise be assumed in connection with such an acquisition, but otherwise excluding Indebtedness incurred in contemplation of such an acquisition) and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness with Indebtedness of a similar type to the extent that such extension, renewal or replacement does not increase the principal amount thereof;
(j) Indebtedness representing deferred compensation to employees incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(k) Indebtedness consisting of promissory notes issued to future, present or former directors, officers, members of management, employees or consultants or their respective estates, heirs, family members, spouses or former spouses to finance the purchase or redemption of equity interests to the extent not prohibited by this Agreement;
(l) Indebtedness incurred in connection with acquisitions or dispositions not prohibited under this Agreement constituting indemnification obligations or the adjustment of the purchase price or similar adjustments;
(m) Indebtedness under deferred compensation, retiree healthcare medical benefits or other similar employment arrangements incurred in connection with acquisitions or dispositions not prohibited under this Agreement;
(n) Indebtedness incurred in respect of cash management services, netting services, overdraft protection (so long as such overdraft is not outstanding for a period of more than two (2) Business Days) and similar arrangements, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(o) Indebtedness consisting of take-or-pay obligations contained in supply or similar arrangements in the ordinary course of business;
(p) Indebtedness constituting reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit issued in the ordinary course of business in respect of workers compensation claims, health, disability or other employee benefits or property, casualty or liability insurance or self-insurance or other Indebtedness with respect to reimbursement-type obligations regarding workers compensation claims; provided that upon the drawing of such letters of credit or the incurrence of such Indebtedness, such obligations are reimbursed within thirty (30) days following such drawing or incurrence;
(q) obligations in respect of performance and surety, stay, customs, appeal and performance bonds and performance and completion guarantees or obligations in respect of letters of credit in respect thereof, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(r) Hedging Obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business and not for speculative purposes;
 
(s) unsecured Indebtedness of H-D Varese Holding Co. S.r.l. and its Subsidiaries (including successors and assigns) in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding 200,000,000 at any time outstanding;
(t) unsecured Indebtedness of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Canada, Inc. and its Subsidiaries (including successors and assigns) in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding $400,000,000 at any time outstanding;
(u) Subordinated Indebtedness and Subordinated Intercompany Indebtedness; and
(v) unsecured Indebtedness not otherwise permitted under this in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding $150,000,000 at any time outstanding.
Section 6.2.1
6.2.2 . Create or suffer to exist, or permit any Material Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign for security purposes, or permit any Material Subsidiaries to assign for security purposes, any right to receive income, other than:
Liens, Etc
(a) Permitted Liens;
(b) purchase money Liens upon or in any real Property or goods acquired or held by any of the Companies or any Material Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such Property or goods or to secure Indebtedness incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such real Property or goods, or Liens existing on such real Property or goods at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred to finance the acquisition of such Property) or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount; , , that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any properties of any character other than the real Property or goods being acquired (and related Property), and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover any properties not theretofore subject to the Lien being extended, renewed or replaced (it being understood that individual financings permitted by this subsection provided by one Person (or an Affiliate thereof) may be cross-collateralized to other financings provided by such Person and its Affiliates that are permitted under this subsection); , that the aggregate principal amount of the Indebtedness secured by the Liens referred to in this clause (b) shall not exceed $150,000,000 (for the purposes of this , "goods" has the meaning set forth in Section 9-102(44) of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of New York);
provided
however
provided
further
Section 6.2.2(b)
(c) the Liens existing on the Closing Date and described on hereto;
Schedule 6.2.2(c)
(d) Liens on (or assignments of) Property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with any of the Companies or any Material Subsidiary of any of the Companies or becomes a Material Subsidiary of any of the Companies or at the time any of the Companies or any Material Subsidiary of any of the Companies otherwise acquires such Property from such Person; that such Liens or assignments were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition, or such Person becoming a Material Subsidiary, and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with any of the Companies or such Subsidiary or acquired by any of the Companies or such Subsidiary or those of such Person becoming a Material Subsidiary;
provided
(e) other Liens or assignments securing Indebtedness and other obligations in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150,000,000 at any time outstanding;
 
(f) Liens (A) consisting of sales, assignments, pledges or other transfers of Finance Receivables in connection with a Permitted Finance Receivables Securitization, and (B) on Finance Receivables and on any interest in Finance Receivables retained by Harley or any of its Subsidiaries (including a Finance Receivables Subsidiary), whether directly or through the ownership of a certificate or other interest in another Person, provided to secure Permitted Securitization Recourse Obligations of Harley or any of its Subsidiaries;
(g) the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien or assignment permitted by clause (c) or (d) above upon or in the same Property theretofore subject thereto or the replacement, extension or renewal (without increase in the amount or change in any direct or contingent obligor) of the Indebtedness or other obligation secured thereby;
(h) Liens incurred in connection with sale and leaseback transactions securing assets or other Property with a value of not in excess of 5% of the Consolidated shareholders' equity of Harley as shown on the then most recent annual Consolidated financial statements of Harley;
(i) Liens on proceeds of any of the assets permitted to be the subject of any Lien or assignment permitted by this ; and
Section 6.2.2
(j) options, put and call arrangements, rights of first refusal and similar rights relating to investments in joint ventures, partnerships and other similar investments not prohibited by this Agreement.
6.2.3 . Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of related transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to do so, except that (i) any Subsidiary (other than any Company) may merge or consolidate with or into, or transfer, convey or dispose of assets to, any other Subsidiary, (ii) any of the Companies and any Material Subsidiary may merge into or transfer, convey or dispose of assets to any of the Companies, (iii) Harley may merge into a wholly-owned Subsidiary that has no material assets or liabilities for the sole purpose of changing the state of incorporation of Harley if the surviving corporation shall expressly assume the liabilities of Harley under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and (iv) any Guarantor may merge or consolidate with a Person (other than a Borrower) in a transaction in which such Guarantor is the surviving entity; , in each case, that no Unmatured Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result after giving effect thereto and , , that the foregoing shall not restrict any of the Companies or any Material Subsidiaries in respect of dispositions of inventory, cash or obsolete, used or surplus equipment or other Property in the ordinary course of business or in respect of any Permitted Finance Receivables Securitization and , , that the foregoing shall not restrict any of the Companies or any Material Subsidiaries from selling or disposing of any Property the contemplated disposition of which Harley has disclosed in any Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K filed with or furnished to the Commission prior to the Closing Date.
Mergers, Etc
provided
provided
further
provided
further
6.2.4 . Make or permit, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to make or permit, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by generally accepted accounting principles.
Accounting Changes
6.2.5 . Make, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to make, any material change in the nature of the business of Harley and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole as carried on at the date hereof (other than any contemplated disposition described in the third proviso to Section 6.2.3).
Changes in Nature of Business
 
6.2.6 . Permit more than 25% of the "value" (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) of the assets of Harley and its Subsidiaries, both before and after giving effect to any Advance hereunder, to constitute "margin stock" as defined in Regulations T, U and X issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Margin Regulations
6.2.7 . Allow or suffer to exist any amendment, supplement or other modification to the Support Agreement (if the foregoing adversely affects, or could reasonably be expected to adversely affect, the Lenders but in no event shall any amendment reduce, or effectively reduce, the amount of support under the Support Agreement) without the prior written consent of the Required Lenders.
Amendments to Support Agreement
6.3 . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Companies shall comply with the following:
Financial Covenants
(A) . The following terms used in this Agreement shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be applicable, except to the extent otherwise indicated in a definition of a particular term, both to the singular and the plural forms of the terms defined):
Defined Terms for Financial Covenants
"" means, for any period, net income (or net loss) of Harley and its Consolidated Subsidiaries in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles the sum of (a) Consolidated Interest Expense, (b) taxes on or measured by income (including franchise taxes imposed in lieu of income taxes), (c) depreciation expense, (d) amortization expense, (e) non-recurring cash restructuring expenses not to exceed $150,000,000 incurred in any fiscal year of Harley, (f) other non-cash or extraordinary charges and (g) losses arising from discontinued operations (h) any cash payments made during such period in respect of any non-cash charges previously added back to Consolidated EBITDA in accordance with the foregoing clause (f) and paid subsequent to the fiscal quarter in which such non-cash charge was incurred and (i) income or gains arising from discontinued operations, in each case determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles for such period. For the purposes of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period, if during such period Harley or any Subsidiary shall have made an acquisition or a disposition, Consolidated EBITDA for such period shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such acquisition or disposition occurred on the first day of such period.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
minus
"" means and refers to, as of the end of any period of determination, the sum, without duplication, of (i) Consolidated Tangible Net Worth of HDFS, (ii) preferred stock and (iii) Subordinated Indebtedness.
Consolidated Equity
"" means, at any time, all Indebtedness of HDFS and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as reflected in the most recent Consolidated balance sheet of HDFS in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles; , there shall be excluded from such amounts (i) Subordinated Indebtedness and (ii) Subordinated Intercompany Indebtedness.
Consolidated Finco Debt
provided
"" means, with respect to Harley and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for any fiscal period, interest expense (whether cash or non-cash) determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles for the relevant period ended on such date and including interest expense for the relevant period that has been capitalized on the balance sheet.
Consolidated Interest Expense
 
"" of HDFS means its consolidated shareholder's equity net of intangible assets, as shall be determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
"" means the ratio of (a) Consolidated Finco Debt to (b) Consolidated Equity.
Finco Leverage Ratio
"" means the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense.
Interest Coverage Ratio
"" means Indebtedness of Harley or its Subsidiaries, whether direct or indirect, to non-affiliated Persons which is subordinated to the Obligations on a basis acceptable to the Global Administrative Agent.
Subordinated Indebtedness
(B) . The Companies shall not permit the Finco Leverage Ratio, as of the end of any fiscal quarter, to exceed 10.00 to 1.00.
Maximum Finco Leverage Ratio
(C) . Harley shall not permit its Interest Coverage Ratio, as of the end of any fiscal quarter for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended, to be less than the ratio set forth below opposite such date:
Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio
 
7.1 . Each of the following occurrences shall constitute a Default under this Agreement:
Defaults
(a) . Any Borrower (i) shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable or (ii) shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any other Loan Document within five (5) Business Days after the same becomes due and payable.
Failure to Make Payments When Due
(b) . Any representation or warranty made by any Company herein or by any Company (or any of their respective officers) in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made.
Breach of Representation or Warranty
(c) . (i) Any of the Companies shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement under , , , , , or or (ii) any of the Companies shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for thirty (30) days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the applicable Company by the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender.
Breach of Certain Covenants
Section 6.1.4
6.1.5
6.1.9
6.1.11
6.2
6.3
(d) . (i) Any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness owed to any Borrower or any Material Subsidiaries) that is outstanding in a principal or net amount of at least $100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding (1) Indebtedness outstanding hereunder and (2)
Default as to Other Indebtedness
 
Indebtedness under a Permitted Finance Receivables Securitization) of such Borrower or such Material Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Indebtedness; or (ii) or any event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Indebtedness (including, for the avoidance of doubt, such Indebtedness under a Permitted Finance Receivables Securitization to the extent such Indebtedness appears as a liability or indebtedness on the balance sheet of any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles  "") and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to enable or permit the holder or holders of any such Indebtedness to cause such Indebtedness to become due, or require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its stated maturity date (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption); or any such Indebtedness (including Balance Sheet ABS Debt) shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Indebtedness (including Balance Sheet ABS Debt) shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof.
Balance Sheet ABS Debt
(e) . Any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against any Borrower or any Material Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its Property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed for a period of sixty (60) days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its Property) shall occur; or any such Borrower or any such Material Subsidiary shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this .
Bankruptcy Events, Etc
Section 7.1(e)
(f) . Judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary with respect to which (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgments or orders or (ii) there shall be any period of ten (10) consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgments or orders, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; , , that any such judgment or order shall not be a Default or included in the calculation of the aggregate amount of judgments or orders under this if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which shall be rated at least "A" by A.M. Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order.
Monetary Judgments
provided
however
Section 7.1(f)
(g) . Any non-monetary judgment or order shall be rendered against any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary that would be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and there shall be any period of ten (10) consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect.
Non-Monetary Judgments
 
(h) . A Change of Control shall occur.
Change of Control
(i) . Harley or any of its ERISA Affiliates shall incur, or shall be reasonably likely to incur, liability in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of one or more of the following: (i) the occurrence of any ERISA Event; (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of Harley or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan; or (iii) the reorganization or termination of a Multiemployer Plan.
ERISA
(j) . Unless a Guarantor has merged or consolidated with another Company as permitted under , any Guarantor shall terminate, revoke, refuse to perform or otherwise breach any of its guaranty and other obligations contained in , or such guaranty shall otherwise become unenforceable for any reason.
Guaranty Default
Section 6.2.3
Article XII
(k) . Harley shall terminate, revoke, refuse to perform or otherwise breach any of its obligations contained in the Support Agreement or such Support Agreement or any part thereof shall terminate or otherwise become unenforceable for any reason.
Support Agreement Default
A Default shall be deemed "continuing" until cured or until waived in writing in accordance with .
Section 8.3
8.1 .(a) . If any Default described in occurs with respect to any Borrower, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall automatically terminate and the Obligations shall immediately become due and payable without any election or action on the part of the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender. If any other Default occurs, the Required Lenders may (i) terminate the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder or (ii) declare the Obligations to be due and payable, or both, and upon any declaration under clause (ii), the Commitments shall terminate and the Obligations shall become immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which each Borrower expressly waives.
Remedies
Termination of Commitments; Acceleration
Section 7.1(e)
(b) . If, at any time after termination of the Lenders' obligations to make Loans but before acceleration of the maturity of the Loans, the relevant Borrower shall pay all arrears of interest and all payments on account of principal of the Loans which shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest on principal and, to the extent permitted by law, on overdue interest, at the rates specified in this Agreement) and all Defaults and Unmatured Defaults (other than nonpayment of principal of and accrued interest on the Loans due and payable solely by virtue of acceleration) shall be remedied or waived pursuant to , then upon the written consent of the Required Lenders and written notice to Harley, the termination of Lenders' respective obligations to make Loans or the aforesaid acceleration and its consequences may be rescinded and annulled; but such action shall not affect any subsequent Default or Unmatured Default or impair any right or remedy consequent thereon. The provisions of the preceding sentence are intended merely to bind the Lenders to a decision which may be made at the election of the Required Lenders; they are not intended to benefit any Borrower and do not give any Borrower the right to require the Lenders to rescind or annul any termination of the aforesaid obligations of the Lenders or any acceleration hereunder, even if the conditions set forth herein are met.
Rescission
Section 8.3
 
8.2 . In the event that any Lender fails to fund its Pro Rata Share of any Syndicated Global Advance requested or deemed requested by the applicable Borrower which such Lender is obligated to fund under the terms of this Agreement (the funded portion of such Advance being hereinafter referred to as a "") or any Lender otherwise becomes a Defaulting Lender, until the earlier of such Lender's cure of such failure and the termination of the Commitments, the proceeds of all amounts thereafter repaid to the Global Administrative Agent by any Borrower and otherwise required to be applied to such Lender's share of all other Obligations pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall be advanced to the applicable Borrower by the Global Administrative Agent ("") on behalf of such Lender to cure, in full or in part, such failure by such Lender, but shall nevertheless be deemed to have been paid to such Lender in satisfaction of such other Obligations. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary:
Defaulting Lender
Non Pro Rata Loan
Cure Loans
(i) the foregoing provisions of this shall apply only with respect to the proceeds of payments of Obligations and shall not affect the conversion or continuation of Loans pursuant to ;
Section 8.2
Section 2.8
(ii) any Defaulting Lender shall be deemed to have cured its failure to fund its Pro Rata Share of any Syndicated Global Advance at such time as an amount equal to such Defaulting Lender's original Pro Rata Share of the requested principal portion of such Advance is fully funded to the applicable Borrower, whether made by such Defaulting Lender itself or by operation of the terms of this , and whether or not the Non Pro Rata Loan with respect thereto has been repaid, converted or continued;
Section 8.2
(iii) amounts advanced to any Borrower to cure, in full or in part, any such Defaulting Lender's failure to fund its Pro Rata Share of any Syndicated Global Advance shall bear interest at the rate applicable to Syndicated Global Loans which are Base Rate Loans, in effect from time to time, and for all other purposes of this Agreement shall be treated as if they were Base Rate Loans;
(iv) regardless of whether or not a Default has occurred or is continuing, and notwithstanding the instructions of any Borrower as to its desired application, all repayments of principal which, in accordance with the other terms of this Agreement, would be applied to the outstanding Base Rate Loans shall be applied , ratably to all Base Rate Loans constituting Non Pro Rata Loans, , ratably to Base Rate Loans other than those constituting Non Pro Rata Loans or Cure Loans and, , ratably to Base Rate Loans constituting Cure Loans;
first
second
third
(v) for so long as and until the earlier of any such Defaulting Lender's cure of all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender and the termination of the Commitments, the term "Required Lenders" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean Lenders (excluding all Defaulting Lenders) whose Pro Rata Shares represent greater than fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate Pro Rata Shares of such Lenders; and
(vi) for so long as and until any such Defaulting Lender's cure of all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, such Defaulting Lender shall not be entitled to any fees, and no fees shall accrue, with respect to its Commitment.
8.3 . Subject to the provisions of this Article VIII, the Required Lenders (or the Global Administrative Agent with the consent in writing of the Required Lenders) and the Borrowers may enter into agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding or modifying any provisions to the Loan Documents or changing in any manner the rights of the Lenders or the Borrowers hereunder or waiving any Default hereunder; , , that no such supplemental agreement shall, without the consent of each Lender directly affected thereby:
Amendments
provided
however
(i) postpone or extend the Termination Date or any other date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Loans or any fees or other amounts payable to such Lender (except with respect to a waiver of the application of the default rate of interest pursuant to hereof);
Section 2.11
 
(ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loans, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest or fees thereon or other amounts payable hereunder;
(iii) reduce the percentage specified in the definition of Required Lenders or any other percentage or number of Lenders specified to be the applicable percentage or number in this Agreement to act on specified matters or amend the definitions of "Required Lenders" or "Pro Rata Share";
(iv) increase the amount of the Commitment of any Syndicated Global Lender or increase any Lender's Pro Rata Share;
(v) permit any Borrower to assign its rights under this Agreement;
(vi) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Support Agreement, release Harley from any of its obligations under the Support Agreement or otherwise terminate the Support Agreement;
(vii) release any Guarantor other than in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents;
(viii) alter the manner in which payments or prepayments of principal, interest or other amounts under the Loan Documents shall be applied as among the Lenders; or
(ix) amend this .
Section 8.3
No amendment of any provision of this Agreement relating to the Global Administrative Agent shall be effective without the written consent of the Global Administrative Agent. The Global Administrative Agent may waive payment of the fee required under without obtaining the consent of any of the Lenders or Borrowers.
Section 13.3(B)
If, in connection with any proposed amendment, waiver or consent requiring the consent of "the Lenders", "each Lender" or "each Lender directly affected thereby," the consent of the Required Lenders is obtained, but the consent of other necessary Lenders is not obtained (any such Lender whose consent is necessary but not obtained being referred to herein as a ""), then Harley may (at its sole cost and expense) elect to replace a Non-Consenting Lender as a Lender party to this Agreement; that, concurrently with such replacement, (i) another bank or other entity which is reasonably satisfactory to Harley and the Global Administrative Agent shall agree, as of such date, to purchase for cash the Loans and other Obligations due to the Non-Consenting Lender pursuant to an assignment and assumption and to become a Lender for all purposes under this Agreement and to assume all obligations of the Non-Consenting Lender to be terminated as of such date and to comply with the requirements of , and with Harley or such replacement Lender paying the $3,500 processing fee required in and (ii) Harley shall pay to such Non-Consenting Lender in same day funds on the day of such replacement (1) all principal, interest, fees and other amounts then accrued but unpaid to such Non-Consenting Lender by any Borrower hereunder to and including the date of termination, including without limitation payments due to such Non-Consenting Lender under , and , and (2) an amount, if any, equal to the payment which would have been due to such Lender on the day of such replacement under had the Loans of such Non-Consenting Lender been prepaid on such date rather than sold to the replacement Lender.
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
Section 13.3(A)
Section 13.3(B)
Sections 3.1
3.2
3.5
Section 3.4
 
8.4 . No delay or omission of the Lenders or the Global Administrative Agent to exercise any right under the Loan Documents shall impair such right or be construed to be a waiver of any Default or an acquiescence therein, and the making of a Loan notwithstanding the existence of a Default or the inability of any Borrower to satisfy the conditions precedent to such Loan shall not constitute any waiver or acquiescence. Any single or partial exercise of any such right shall not preclude other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, and no waiver, amendment or other variation of the terms, conditions or provisions of the Loan Documents whatsoever shall be valid unless in writing signed by the Lenders required pursuant to , and then only to the extent in such writing specifically set forth. All remedies contained in the Loan Documents or by law afforded shall be cumulative and all shall be available to the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders until the Obligations have been paid in full.
Preservation of Rights
Section 8.3
9.1 . All representations and warranties of the relevant Companies contained in this Agreement shall survive delivery of any Notes and the making of the Loans herein contemplated.
Survival of Representations
9.2 . Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, no Lender shall be obligated to extend credit to any Borrower in violation of any limitation or prohibition provided by any applicable statute or regulation.
Governmental Regulation
9.3 . Section headings in the Loan Documents are for convenience of reference only, and shall not govern the interpretation of any of the provisions of the Loan Documents.
Headings
9.4 . The Loan Documents embody the entire agreement and understanding among the Companies, the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders and supersede all prior agreements and understandings among the Companies, the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders relating to the subject matter thereof.
Entire Agreement
9.5 . The respective obligations of the Lenders hereunder are several and not joint and no Lender shall be the partner or agent of any other. The failure of any Lender to perform any of its obligations hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender from any of its obligations hereunder. This Agreement shall not be construed so as to confer any right or benefit upon any Person other than the parties to this Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
Several Obligations; Benefits of this Agreement
9.6 .
Expenses; Indemnification
(A) . The Borrowers shall reimburse the Global Administrative Agent and the Arrangers for any reasonable costs, internal charges and out-of-pocket expenses (including attorneys' and paralegals' fees and time charges of attorneys and paralegals for each such Person, which attorneys and paralegals may be employees of such Persons) paid or incurred by such Persons in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery, syndication, distribution (including via the internet), review, amendment, modification, and administration of the Loan Documents. The Borrowers also agree to reimburse the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders for any costs, internal charges and out-of-pocket expenses (including attorneys' and paralegals' fees and time charges of attorneys and paralegals for each such Person, which attorneys and paralegals may be employees of such Persons) paid or incurred by each such Person in connection with the collection of the Obligations and enforcement of the Loan
Expenses
 
Documents; that the Borrowers shall not be obligated to so reimburse for more than one primary law firm (and, in addition to such primary law firm, one local counsel engaged in each relevant jurisdiction by such primary law firm) as counsel for the Global Administrative Agent and more than one primary law firm (and, in addition to such primary law firm, one local counsel engaged in each relevant jurisdiction by such primary law firm) as counsel for the Lenders in connection with such collection or enforcement.
provided
(B) . Each of the Borrowers further agrees to defend, protect, indemnify, and hold harmless the Global Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, each and all of the Lenders, and each of their respective Affiliates, and each of such Person's respective officers, directors, employees, attorneys and agents (including, without limitation, those retained in connection with the satisfaction or attempted satisfaction of any of the conditions set forth in ) (collectively, the "") from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, claims, costs, expenses of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, the fees and disbursements of counsel for such Indemnitees in connection with any investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding, whether or not such Indemnitees shall be designated a party thereto), imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against such Indemnitees in any manner relating to or arising out of:
Indemnity
Article IV
Indemnitees
(i) this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, or any act, event or transaction related or attendant thereto, the making of the Loans hereunder, the management of such Loans or the use or intended use of the proceeds of the Loans; or
(ii) any liabilities, obligations, responsibilities, losses, damages, personal injury, death, punitive damages, economic damages, consequential damages, treble damages, intentional, willful or wanton injury, damage or threat to the environment, natural resources or public health or welfare, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, attorney, expert and consulting fees and costs of investigation, feasibility or remedial action studies), fines, penalties and monetary sanctions, interest, direct or indirect, known or unknown, absolute or contingent, past, present or future relating to violation of any Environmental Law arising from or in connection with the past, present or future operations of the Companies, their Subsidiaries or any of their respective predecessors in interest, or, the past, present or future environmental, health or safety condition of any respective Property of the Companies or their Subsidiaries, the presence of asbestos-containing materials at any respective Property of the Companies or their Subsidiaries or the Release or threatened Release of any contaminant into the environment (collectively, the "");
Indemnified Matters
, , no Borrower shall have any obligation to an Indemnitee hereunder with respect to Indemnified Matters to the extent caused solely by or resulting solely from the bad faith, willful misconduct or gross negligence of such Indemnitee or such Indemnitee's material breach of its obligations under this Agreement, in each case as determined by the final non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. If the undertaking to indemnify, pay and hold harmless set forth in the preceding sentence may be unenforceable because it is violative of any law or public policy, the Borrowers shall contribute the maximum portion which it is permitted to pay and satisfy under applicable law, to the payment and satisfaction of all Indemnified Matters incurred by the Indemnitees.
provided
however
(C) . Each of the Companies further agrees to assert no claim against any of the Indemnitees on any theory of liability for consequential, special, indirect, exemplary or punitive damages. No settlement shall be entered into by any Company or any of their Subsidiaries with respect to any claim, litigation, arbitration or other proceeding relating to or arising out of the transaction evidenced by this Agreement or the other Loan Documents (whether or not the Global Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Indemnitee is a party thereto) unless such settlement releases all Indemnitees from any and all liability with respect thereto.
Waiver of Certain Claims; Settlement of Claims
 
(D) . The obligations and agreements of the Companies under this shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Survival of Agreements
Section 9.6
9.7 . All statements, notices, closing documents, and requests hereunder shall be furnished to the Global Administrative Agent with sufficient counterparts so that the Global Administrative Agent may furnish one to each of the relevant Lenders.
Numbers of Documents
9.8 . Except as provided to the contrary herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted and all accounting determinations hereunder shall be made in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles. Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature used herein shall be construed, and all computations of amounts and ratios referred to herein shall be made (i) without giving effect to any election under Accounting Standards Codification 825-10-25 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any Indebtedness or other liabilities of Harley or any Subsidiary of Harley at "fair value", as defined therein and (ii) without giving effect to any treatment of Indebtedness in respect of convertible debt instruments under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any such Indebtedness in a reduced or bifurcated manner as described therein, and such Indebtedness shall at all times be valued at the full stated principal amount thereof. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the determination of whether a lease constitutes a capital lease or an operating lease, and whether obligations arising under a lease are required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee thereunder and/or recognized as interest expense, shall be determined by reference to Agreement Accounting Principles as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
Accounting
9.9 . Any provision in any Loan Document that is held to be inoperative, unenforceable, or invalid in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be inoperative, unenforceable, or invalid without affecting the remaining provisions in that jurisdiction or the operation, enforceability, or validity of that provision in any other jurisdiction, and to this end the provisions of all Loan Documents are declared to be severable.
Severability of Provisions
9.10 . The relationship among the Companies and the Lenders and the Global Administrative Agent shall be solely that of borrower or guarantor and lender. Neither the Global Administrative Agent nor any Lender shall have any fiduciary responsibilities to any of the Companies. Neither the Global Administrative Agent nor any Lender undertakes any responsibility to any of the Companies to review or inform any of the Companies of any matter in connection with any phase of any of the Companies' business or operations.
Nonliability of Lenders
9.11 . THE LOAN DOCUMENTS (OTHER THAN THOSE CONTAINING A CONTRARY EXPRESS CHOICE OF LAW PROVISION) SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO BANKS. EACH COMPANY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND
CHOICE OF LAW AND SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE OR, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE GLOBAL ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AGAINST ANY COMPANY OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
9.12 . EACH OF THE COMPANIES, THE GLOBAL ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER HEREBY WAIVE TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING INVOLVING, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ANY MATTER (WHETHER SOUNDING IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED THEREUNDER. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES AND CONSENTS THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM, DEMAND, ACTION OR CAUSE OF ACTION SHALL BE DECIDED BY COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY AND THAT ANY PARTY HERETO MAY FILE AN ORIGINAL COUNTERPART OR A COPY OF THIS AGREEMENT WITH ANY COURT AS WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF THE CONSENT OF THE PARTIES HERETO TO THE WAIVER OF THEIR RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
9.13 . The parties hereto have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties hereto and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents.
No Strict Construction
9.14 . Each Lender that is subject to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "") hereby notifies each Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies such Borrower, which information includes the name and address of such Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify such Borrower in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT ACT
Act
9.15 . Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Article XIV. Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
Service of Process
10.1 . JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is appointed by the Lenders (each reference in this to a Lender being in its capacity as a Lender) as the Global Administrative Agent hereunder and under each other Loan Document, and each of the Lenders irrevocably authorizes the Global Administrative Agent to act as the contractual representative of such Lender with the rights and duties expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. The Global Administrative Agent agrees to act as such contractual representative upon the express conditions contained in this . Notwithstanding the use of the defined term "Global Administrative Agent",
Appointment; Nature of Relationship
Article X
Article X
 
it is expressly understood and agreed that the Global Administrative Agent shall not have any fiduciary responsibilities to any Lender by reason of this Agreement and that the Global Administrative Agent is merely acting as the representative of the Lenders with only those duties as are expressly set forth in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. In its capacity as the Lenders' contractual representative, the Global Administrative Agent (i) does not assume any fiduciary duties to any of the Lenders, and (ii) is acting as an independent contractor, the rights and duties of which are limited to those expressly set forth in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Each of the Lenders agrees to assert no claim against the Global Administrative Agent on any agency theory or any other theory of liability for breach of fiduciary duty, all of which claims each Lender waives.
10.2 . The Global Administrative Agent shall have and may exercise such powers under the Loan Documents as are specifically delegated to the Global Administrative Agent by the terms of each thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The Global Administrative Agent shall have no implied duties or fiduciary duties to the Lenders, or any obligation to the Lenders to take any action hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents except any action specifically provided by the Loan Documents required to be taken by the Global Administrative Agent. The Global Administrative Agent shall have and may exercise such powers under the Loan Documents as are specifically delegated to the Global Administrative Agent by the terms of each thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The Global Administrative Agent shall have no implied duties or fiduciary duties to the Lenders, or any obligation to the Lenders to take any action hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents except any action specifically provided by the Loan Documents required to be taken by the Global Administrative Agent. Without limiting the foregoing, the Global Administrative Agent hereby agrees to provide the notice contemplated by if so requested by the Required Lenders.
Powers
Section 7.1(b)
10.3 . Neither the Global Administrative Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable to any of the Borrowers or Lenders for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them hereunder or under any other Loan Document or in connection herewith or therewith except to the extent such action or inaction is found in a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen solely from (i) the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Person or (ii) breach of contract by such Person with respect to the Loan Documents.
General Immunity
10.4 . Neither the Global Administrative Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain, inquire into, or verify (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in connection with any Loan Document or any borrowing hereunder; (ii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants or agreements of any obligor under any Loan Document; (iii) the satisfaction of any condition specified in (other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Global Administrative Agent on the Closing Date pursuant to ); (iv) the existence or possible existence of any Default or (v) the validity, effectiveness or genuineness of any Loan Document or any other instrument or writing furnished in connection therewith. The Global Administrative Agent shall not be responsible to any Lender for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties herein or in any of the other Loan Documents, for the execution, effectiveness, genuineness, validity, legality, enforceability, collectibility, or sufficiency of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated thereby, or for the financial condition of Harley, any guarantor of any or all of the Obligations, any Company or any of their Subsidiaries.
No Responsibility for Loans, Creditworthiness, Recitals, Etc
Article IV
Section 4.1
10.5 . The Global Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder and under any other Loan Document in accordance with written instructions signed by the Required Lenders (except with respect to actions that require the consent of all of the Lenders as provided in ), and such instructions and any action
Action on Instructions of Lenders
Section 8.3
 
taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding on all of the Lenders and on all holders of Notes. The Global Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action hereunder and under any other Loan Document unless it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders pro rata against any and all liability, cost and expense that it may incur by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action.
10.6 . The Global Administrative Agent may execute any of its duties hereunder and under any other Loan Document by or through employees, agents, affiliates and attorneys-in-fact, and shall not be answerable to the Lenders, except as to money or securities received by it or its authorized agents, for the default or misconduct of any such agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it with reasonable care. The Global Administrative Agent shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning the contractual arrangement among the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders and all matters pertaining to the Global Administrative Agent's duties hereunder and under any other Loan Document.
Employment of the Global Administrative Agent and Counsel
10.7 . The Global Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon any Note, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telegram, statement, paper or document believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by the proper person or persons, and, in respect to legal matters, upon the opinion of counsel selected by the Global Administrative Agent, which counsel may be employees of the Global Administrative Agent.
Reliance on Documents; Counsel
10.8 . The Lenders agree to reimburse and indemnify the Global Administrative Agent ratably in proportion to their respective Pro Rata Shares (determined at the time such indemnity is sought) (i) for any amounts not reimbursed by any Borrower for which the Global Administrative Agent is entitled to reimbursement or indemnification by any Borrower under the Loan Documents, (ii) for any other expenses incurred by the Global Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, distribution (including via the internet) and enforcement of the Loan Documents, including as a result of a dispute among the Lenders or between any Lender and the Global Administrative Agent, and (iii) for any liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind and nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Global Administrative Agent in any way relating to or arising out of the Loan Documents or any other document delivered in connection therewith or the transactions contemplated thereby, or the enforcement of any of the terms thereof or of any such other documents, including as a result of a dispute among the Lenders or between any Lender and the Global Administrative Agent; that no Lender shall be liable for any of the foregoing to the extent any of the foregoing is found in a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen solely from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Global Administrative Agent.
The Global Administrative Agent's Reimbursement and Indemnification
provided
10.9 . With respect to its Commitment, Loans made by it and any Notes issued to it, the Global Administrative Agent shall have the same rights and powers hereunder and under any other Loan Document as any Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Global Administrative Agent, as applicable, and the term "Lender" or "Lenders", as applicable, shall, unless the context otherwise indicates, include the Global Administrative Agent in its individual capacity. The Global Administrative Agent may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of trust, debt, equity or other transaction, in addition to those contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document, with Harley, any Company or any of their Subsidiaries in which such Person is not prohibited hereby from engaging with any other Person.
Rights as a Lender
 
10.10 . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Global Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on the financial statements prepared by the Borrowers and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Global Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Lender Credit Decision
10.11 . The Global Administrative Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrowers. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint, on behalf of the Lenders, a successor Global Administrative Agent. If no successor Global Administrative Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within thirty days after the retiring Global Administrative Agent's giving notice of resignation, then the retiring Global Administrative Agent may appoint, on behalf of the Lenders, a successor Global Administrative Agent. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, so long as no Default has occurred and is continuing, each such successor Global Administrative Agent shall be subject to approval by Harley, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Such successor Global Administrative Agent shall be a commercial bank (including a branch thereof) having capital and retained earnings of at least $500,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as the Global Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor Global Administrative Agent, such successor Global Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Global Administrative Agent, and the retiring Global Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. After any retiring Global Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder as the Global Administrative Agent, the provisions of this shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as the Global Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents.
Successor Global Administrative Agent
Article X
10.12 .. None of the Lenders, if any, identified in this Agreement as a "co-agent", "documentation agent" or "syndication agent" shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than those applicable to all Lenders as such. Without limiting the foregoing, none of such Lenders shall have or be deemed to have a fiduciary relationship with any Lender. Each Lender hereby makes the same acknowledgments with respect to such Lenders as it makes with respect to the Global Administrative Agent in .
Co-Agents, Documentation Agent, Syndication Agent, etc
Section 10.10
11.1 . In addition to, and without limitation of, any rights of the Lenders under applicable law, if any Default occurs and is continuing, any indebtedness from any Lender to any Company (including all account balances, whether provisional or final and whether or not collected or available) may be offset and applied toward the payment of the Obligations owing to such Lender and the other Obligations, whether or not the Obligations, or any part hereof, shall then be due.
Setoff
11.2 . If any Syndicated Global Lender, whether by setoff or otherwise, has payment made to it upon its Syndicated Global Loans (other than payments received pursuant to , , or ) in a greater proportion than that received by any other Syndicated Global Lender, such Syndicated Global Lender agrees, promptly upon demand, to purchase a portion of the Syndicated Global Loans held by the other Syndicated Global Lenders so that after such purchase each Syndicated Global Lender will hold its ratable proportion of Syndicated Global Loans. If any Syndicated Global Lender, whether in connection with setoff or amounts which might be subject to setoff or otherwise, receives collateral or other protection for its Obligations or such amounts which may be subject to setoff,
Ratable Payments
Sections 3.1
3.2
3.4
3.5
 
such Syndicated Global Lender agrees, promptly upon demand, to take such action necessary such that all Syndicated Global Lenders share in the benefits of such collateral ratably in proportion to their Syndicated Global Loans. In case any such payment is disturbed by legal process, or otherwise, appropriate further adjustments shall be made.
In order to induce the Lenders to extend credit hereunder, but subject to the provisions of the final paragraph of this , each Guarantor fully and unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, jointly with the other Guarantors and severally, the Obligations (including, without limitation, interest accruing hereunder after the commencement of any case under the United States Bankruptcy Code or any other bankruptcy-related rules or legislation in any country in which a Company is organized, whether or not allowed as a claim in such case). The obligations of the Guarantors under this Article XII are sometimes referred to as the "". Each Guarantor further agrees that the Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its Guarantee hereunder notwithstanding any such extension or renewal of any Obligation.
Article XII
Guarantee
Each Guarantor waives presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to any Borrower of any of the Obligations, and also waives notice of acceptance of its obligations and notice of protest for nonpayment. The obligations of the Guarantors hereunder shall not be affected by the failure of any Lender or the Global Administrative Agent to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against any Borrower under the provisions of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or otherwise, or, except as specifically provided therein, by any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any other agreement.
Each Guarantor further agrees that its Guarantee hereunder constitutes a promise of payment when due and not merely of collection, and waives any right to require that any resort be had by any Lender to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of any Lender in favor of any Borrower or any other person.
Each Guarantor agrees that its obligations under this Guarantee shall be unconditional, irrespective of:
(i) the validity, enforceability, avoidance, novation or subordination of any of the Obligations or any of the Loan Documents;
(ii) the absence of any attempt by, or on behalf of, any Lender or the Global Administrative Agent to collect, or to take any other action to enforce, all or any part of the Obligations whether from or against any Borrower, any other guarantor of the Obligations or any other Person;
(iii) the election of any remedy by, or on behalf of, any Lender or the Global Administrative Agent with respect to all or any part of the Obligations;
(iv) the waiver, consent, extension, forbearance or granting of any indulgence by, or on behalf of, any Lender or the Global Administrative Agent with respect to any provision of any of the Loan Documents;
 
(v) the failure of the Global Administrative Agent to take any steps to perfect and maintain its security interest in, or to preserve its rights to, any security or collateral for the Obligations;
(vi) the election by, or on behalf of, any one or more of the Lenders or the Global Administrative Agent in any proceeding instituted under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (11 U.S.C. 101 et seq.) (the "") or other bankruptcy-related rules or legislation in any country in which a Company is organized, of the application of Section 1111(b)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code;
Bankruptcy Code
(vii) any borrowing or grant of a security interest by any Company, as debtor-in-possession, under Section 364 of the Bankruptcy Code or any other bankruptcy-related rules or regulations in any country in which a Borrower is organized;
(viii) the disallowance, under Section 502 of the Bankruptcy Code or any other bankruptcy-related rules or regulations in any country in which a Company is organized, of all or any portion of the claims of any of the Lenders or the Global Administrative Agent for repayment of all or any part of the Obligations; or
(ix) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of any Borrower or any Guarantor.
The obligations of the Guarantors hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, and shall not be subject to any defense or setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever, by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations, any impossibility in the performance of the Obligations or otherwise. The Lenders, either themselves or acting through the Global Administrative Agent, are authorized, without notice or demand and without affecting the liability of any Guarantor hereunder, from time to time, (a) to renew, extend, accelerate or otherwise change the time for payment of, or other terms relating to, all or any part of the Obligations, or to otherwise modify, amend or change the terms of any of the Loan Documents; (b) to accept partial payments on all or any part of the Obligations; (c) to take and hold security or collateral for the payment of all or any part of the Obligations, this Guarantee, or any other guaranties of all or any part of the Obligations, (d) to exchange, enforce, waive and release any such security or collateral; (e) to apply such security or collateral and direct the order or manner of sale thereof as in their discretion they may determine; (f) to settle, release, exchange, enforce, waive, compromise or collect or otherwise liquidate all or any part of the Obligations, this Guarantee, any other guaranty of all or any part of the Obligations, and any security or collateral for the Obligations or for any such guaranty.
The Guarantors consent and agree that none of the Lenders nor the Global Administrative Agent nor any Person acting for or on behalf of the Lenders or the Global Administrative Agent shall be under any obligation to marshall any assets in favor of any Guarantor or against or in payment of any or all of the Obligations. The Guarantors further agree that, to the extent that any Borrower, any Guarantor or any other guarantor of all or any part of the Obligations makes a payment or payments to any Lender or the Global Administrative Agent, or any Lender or the Global Administrative Agent receives any proceeds of collateral for all or any part of the Obligations, which payment or payments or any part thereof are subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside and/or required to be repaid to any Borrower, such Guarantor, such other guarantor or any other Person, or their respective estates, trustees, receivers or any other party, under any bankruptcy law, state, provincial or federal law, common law or equitable cause, then, to the extent of such payment or repayment, the part of the Obligations which has been paid, reduced or satisfied by such amount shall be reinstated and continued in full force and effect as of the time immediately preceding such initial payment, reduction or satisfaction.
 
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender may have at law or in equity against the Guarantors by virtue hereof, upon the failure of any Borrower to pay any of the Obligations when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, each Guarantor promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by the Global Administrative Agent, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, in cash, the amount of such unpaid Obligations. The Guarantors further agree, jointly and severally, that if payment in respect of any of the Obligations owed to any Lender shall be due at a place of payment other than as designated in this Agreement and if, by reason of any Change in Law (as defined in Section 3.1), war or civil disturbance or other event, such place of payment shall be impossible or, in the judgment of such Lender, not consistent with the protection of its rights or interests, then, at the election of such Lender, the Guarantors shall make payment of such Obligation in the applicable place designated in this Agreement, and shall indemnify such Lender against any losses or expenses that it shall sustain as a result of such alternative payment.
Until the Obligations have been paid in full in cash and the Termination Date shall have occurred, the Guarantors (i) shall have no right of subrogation with respect to such Obligations and (ii) waive any right to enforce any remedy which the Lenders or the Global Administrative Agent (or any of them) now have or may hereafter have against any Borrower, any endorser or any guarantor of all or any part of the Obligations or any other Person, and the Guarantors waive any benefit of, and any right to participate in, any security or collateral given to the Lenders and the Global Administrative Agent (or any of them) to secure the payment or performance of all or any part of the Obligations or any other liability of any Borrower to the Lenders or the Global Administrative Agent (or any of them).
This Guarantee shall continue in full force and effect and may not be terminated or otherwise revoked until the Obligations shall have been fully paid (in cash) and discharged and this Agreement and all financing arrangements between any Borrower, the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have been terminated; if a Guarantor is merged or consolidated with another Company pursuant to or if the capital stock of a Guarantor is sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of in a transaction permitted pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (as in effect on the Closing Date), such Guarantor shall be released from its obligations under this Agreement without further action. If, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Guarantors (or any of them) shall have any right under applicable law to terminate or revoke this Guarantee, the Guarantors agree that such termination or revocation shall not be effective until a written notice of such revocation or termination, specifically referring hereto, signed by the Guarantors, is actually received by the Global Administrative Agent. Such notice shall not affect the right and power of any of the Lenders or the Global Administrative Agent to enforce rights arising prior to receipt thereof by the Global Administrative Agent. If any Lender grants loans or takes other action after a Guarantor terminates or revokes this Guarantee but before the Global Administrative Agent receives such written notice, the rights of such Lender with respect thereto shall be the same as if such termination or revocation had not occurred. The provisions of this Article XII shall remain in full force and effect, notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement, until the Obligations shall have been fully paid (in cash) and discharged.
provided that
Section 6.2.3
Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 6.1.11 or this Article XII to the contrary, (i) the obligations of the Finco Guarantors under this Article XII shall be solely in respect of the Loans made to, and any other Obligations of, HDFC, (ii) prior to the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, the obligations of the Opco Guarantors under this Article XII shall be solely in respect of the Loans made to, and any other Obligations of, Harley and (iii) on and after the Guaranty Ratings Threshold Date, the obligations of the Opco Guarantors under this Article XII shall be automatically released and terminated.
 
13.1 . The terms and provisions of the Loan Documents shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Companies, the Lenders and the Global Administrative Agent and their respective successors and assigns, except that (i) the Companies shall not have the right to assign their rights or obligations under the Loan Documents and (ii) any assignment by any Lender must be made in compliance with hereof. Notwithstanding  of this , any Lender may at any time, without the consent of any Borrower or the Global Administrative Agent, assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and any Notes to a Federal Reserve Bank; , , that no such assignment shall release the transferor Lender from its obligations hereunder. The Global Administrative Agent may treat any Lender as the owner of the Loans for all purposes hereof unless and until such Lender complies with hereof in the case of an assignment thereof or, in the case of any other transfer, a written notice of the transfer is filed with the Global Administrative Agent. Any such assignee or transferee agrees by acceptance thereof to be bound by all the terms and provisions of the Loan Documents. Any request, authority or consent of any Person, who at the time of making such request or giving such authority or consent is the holder of any Loan, shall be conclusive and binding on any subsequent holder, transferee or assignee of such Loan.
Successors and Assigns
Section 13.3
clause (ii)
Section 13.1
provided
however
Section 13.3
13.2 .. Subject to the terms set forth in this , any Lender may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time sell to one or more banks or other entities ("") participating interests in any Loan owing to such Lender or any Commitment of such Lender or any other interest of such Lender under the Loan Documents. In the event of any such sale by a Lender of participating interests to a Participant, such Lender's obligations under the Loan Documents shall remain unchanged, such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, such Lender shall remain the owner of all Loans for all purposes under the Loan Documents, all amounts payable by any Borrower under this Agreement shall be determined as if such Lender had not sold such participating interests, and such Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under the Loan Documents except that, for purposes of hereof, the Participants shall be entitled to the same rights as if they were Lenders (subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in , including the requirements under Section 3.5(iv) (it being understood that the documentation required under shall be delivered to the participating Lender)) and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to ; provided however that no Participant shall be entitled to receive any greater payment under than the Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the rights participated. Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Companies, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the obligations under the Loan Documents (the "Participant Register"); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in the obligations under any Loan Document) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such interest is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.
Participations
Permitted Participants; Effect
Section 13.2
Participants
Article III
Article III
Section 3.5(iv)
Section 13.3
Article III
provided
(B) . Each Lender shall retain the sole right to approve, without the consent of any Participant, any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Loan Documents, other than any amendment, modification or waiver with respect to any Loan or Commitment in which such Participant has an interest which involves an amendment, modification or waiver with respect to a matter which, if such Participant were a Lender hereunder, would require the consent of such Lender under  through  of hereof.
Voting Rights
clauses (i)
(viii)
Section 8.3
 
(C) . The Companies agree that each Participant shall be deemed to have the right of setoff provided in hereof in respect to its participating interest in amounts owing under the Loan Documents to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were owing directly to it as a Lender under the Loan Documents; that each Lender shall retain the right of setoff provided in hereof with respect to the amount of participating interests sold to each Participant except to the extent such Participant exercises its right of set off. The Lenders agree to share with each Participant, and each Participant, by exercising the right of setoff provided in hereof, agrees to share with each Lender, any amount received pursuant to the exercise of its right of setoff, such amounts to be shared in accordance with as if each Participant were a Lender.
Benefit of Setoff
Section 11.1
provided
Section 11.1
Section 11.1
Section 11.2
13.3 .. Any Lender may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time assign to one or more banks or other entities which is not (i) a competitor of any of the Companies or (ii) a Person that is, or is owned or controlled by, a participant in the transportation industry ("") all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment and all Loans owing to it) in accordance with the provisions of this . Each assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, ratable percentage of all of the rights and obligations of any assigning Lender under this Agreement. Such assignment shall be substantially in the form of hereto and shall not be permitted hereunder unless such assignment is either for all of such Lender's rights and obligations under the Loan Documents or, except for assignments to another Lender, an Affiliate thereof or an Approved Fund, involves loans and commitments in an aggregate amount of at least $5,000,000. Notice to the Global Administrative Agent shall be required prior to any assignment becoming effective and the consent of the Global Administrative Agent (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required prior to any assignment becoming effective with respect to a Purchaser which is not a Lender and, so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, notice to and consent of Harley (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required prior to an assignment becoming effective with respect to a Purchaser which is not a Lender, an Affiliate thereof or an Approved Fund ( that Harley shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Global Administrative Agent within ten (10) Business Days after having received written notice thereof from the Global Administrative Agent).
Assignments
Permitted Assignments
Purchasers
Section 13.3
Exhibit C
provided
(B) . Upon (i) delivery to the Global Administrative Agent of a notice of assignment, substantially in the form attached as to hereto (a ""), together with any consents required by hereof, and (ii) payment of a $3,500 fee to the Global Administrative Agent for processing such assignment, such assignment shall become effective on the effective date specified in such Notice of Assignment. The Notice of Assignment shall contain a representation by the Purchaser to the effect that none of the consideration used to make the purchase of the Commitment and Loans under the applicable assignment agreement are "plan assets" as defined under ERISA and that the rights and interests of the Purchaser in and under the Loan Documents will not be "plan assets" under ERISA. On and after the effective date of such assignment, such Purchaser, if not already a Lender, shall for all purposes be a Lender party to this Agreement and any other Loan Documents executed by the Lenders and shall have all the rights and obligations of a Lender under the Loan Documents, to the same extent as if it were an original party hereto, and no consent or action by any of the Borrowers or the Lenders and no further consent or action by the Global Administrative Agent shall be required to release the transferor Lender with respect to the percentage of the Aggregate Commitment and Loans assigned to such Purchaser. Upon the consummation of any assignment to a Purchaser pursuant to this , the transferor Lender, the Global Administrative Agent and Harley shall, if requested by such transferor Lender or Purchaser, make appropriate arrangements so that replacement Notes are issued to such transferor Lender and new Notes or, as appropriate, replacement Notes, are issued to such Purchaser.
Effect; Effective Date
Appendix I
Exhibit C
Notice of Assignment
Section 13.3(A)
Section 13.3(B)
 
(C) . The Global Administrative Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in a copy of each assignment delivered to and accepted by it pursuant to this and a register (the "") for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender from time to time and whether such Lender is an original Lender or the assignee of another Lender pursuant to an assignment under this . The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and each Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries, the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by any Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
The Register
Section 14.1
Section 13.3
Register
Section 13.3
13.4 . (i) Subject to , the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall hold confidential (A) all nonpublic information obtained pursuant to the requirements of this Agreement and (B) except as otherwise permitted by Harley, all information related to the Licensed Marks (as defined in )) and all other information which a reasonable person would deem to be confidential and/or proprietary in light of the nature of the information and the manner in which it was disclosed; that the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders may each make disclosure (1) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such information and instructed to keep such information confidential and the Global Administrative Agent and each Lender, as applicable, shall be responsible for breach by its respective affiliated Persons to which the Global Administrative Agent or such Lender made such disclosure), (2) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (3) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (4) to any other party to this Agreement, (5) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (6) subject to a written agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (a) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (b) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to any Borrower and its obligations, (7) with the prior written consent of Harley or (8) to the extent such information (a) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (b) becomes available to the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Companies. In no event shall the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender be obligated or required to return any materials furnished by Harley, the Companies or any of their Subsidiaries; , , each prospective Transferee shall be required to agree that if it does not become a participant or assignee it shall return all materials furnished to it by or on behalf of Harley or any Company in connection with this Agreement.
Confidentiality
Section 13.5
Section 13.6
provided
provided
however
(ii) (A) To the extent that the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Title V/Privacy (collectively with the related implementing regulations, the ""), shall be applicable to the transactions contemplated herein, each of the parties hereto agrees that (1) it shall use all non-public personal information obtained pursuant to the requirements of this Agreement solely for the purposes for which the information is disclosed or as otherwise permitted in conformance with the requirements of the GLBA and (2) it shall maintain the confidentiality of such information to the same extent as described in . This clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
GLBA
Section 13.4(i)
 
(B) In the event that the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender reasonably believes that any physical and/or electronic safeguards have been breached, and that non-public personal information has been obtained by persons and/or entities without authority to use or view such non-public personal information, the Global Administrative Agent or such Lender, as applicable, will notify HDFS and Harley, in writing, as soon as reasonably practicable. The Global Administrative Agent and each Lender shall also maintain commercially reasonable processes and procedures for the storage, retention, and disposal of documents and storage media containing nonpublic personal information. Nothing in this clause shall be construed to create any third-party beneficiary rights in any consumer or other holder of nonpublic personal information. This clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
(iii) Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that any breach of the aforesaid confidentiality obligations in this is likely to cause or threaten irreparable harm to HDFS and Harley. Therefore, HDFS and Harley shall be entitled to seek equitable relief to protect its interests, including but not limited to preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, as well as monetary damages. Nothing stated herein will be construed to limit any other remedies available to the parties hereto. This section shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Section 13.4
13.5 . Each of the Companies authorizes each Lender to disclose to any Participant or Purchaser or any other Person acquiring an interest in the Loan Documents by operation of law (each a "") and any prospective Transferee any and all information in such Lender's possession concerning the Companies and their Subsidiaries; that prior to any such disclosure, such prospective Transferee shall agree in writing to preserve in accordance with the confidentiality of any non-public information described therein.
Dissemination of Information
Transferee
provided
Section 13.4
13.6 . (i) HDFS , Harley and their affiliates have the right pursuant to licenses or otherwise to use certain trademarks, logos, etc. relating to Harley-Davidson Motorcycles, HDFS and their affiliates (the ""). Except as permitted by the following sentences, none of the Global Administrative Agent, the Lenders or their Affiliates are authorized to use such Licensed Marks or Harley's or HDFS's text name and logo on forms, in legal documents, in advertising, marketing materials, in press releases or any other document or material. In the event the Global Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their Affiliates wish to use said Licensed Marks, such Person must obtain HDFS's and Harley's prior written approval, which said approval is at HDFS's and Harley's sole and absolute discretion and subject to subsequent periodic review of such use and to such reasonable specifications of HDFS and Harley to the extent such specifications are directly related to the legal maintenance, whether such is before or after lapse or termination of this Agreement. The Harley-Davidson text name, logo(s) and registered trademark are not to be used by the Global Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their Affiliates in any way before, during or after the term of this Agreement, unless prior written consent is obtained from HDFS and Harley. This section shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Non-Use of HDFS' Licensed Marks
Licensed Marks
(ii) Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that any breach of the aforestated non-use obligations in this is likely to cause or threaten irreparable harm to HDFS and Harley. Therefore, in the event of any such breach, HDFS and Harley shall be entitled to seek equitable relief to protect its interests, including but not limited to preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, as well as monetary damages. Nothing stated in this shall be construed to limit any other remedies available to any party hereto.
Section 13.6
Section 13.6
14.1 . Except as otherwise permitted by with respect to Borrowing Notices and , all notices and other communications provided to any party hereto under this Agreement or any other Loan Documents shall be in writing or by telex or by facsimile and addressed or delivered to such party at its address set forth below its signature hereto or at such other address as may
Giving Notice
Article II
Section 6.1.9
 
be designated by such party in a notice to the other parties. Any notice, if mailed and properly addressed with postage prepaid, shall be deemed given when received; any notice, if transmitted by telex or facsimile, shall be deemed given when transmitted (answerback confirmed in the case of telexes); or, if by courier, one (1) Business Day after deposit with a reputable overnight carrier service; with all charges paid. Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Global Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Global Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Global Administrative Agent or the Companies may, in their respective discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
provided
14.2 . Any of the Companies, the Global Administrative Agent and any Lender may each change the address for service of notice upon it by a notice in writing to the other parties hereto (or, in the case of any Lender, by notice in writing to Harley and the Global Administrative Agent).
Change of Address
15.1 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement, and any of the parties hereto may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Companies, the Lenders and the Global Administrative Agent have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Harley-Davidson $675 million Global Credit Facility
 
 
 
(i) The Borrowers agree that any and all claims of the Borrowers against any Guarantor with respect to any "Guarantor Intercompany Indebtedness" (as hereinafter defined), any endorser, obligor or any other guarantor of all or any part of the Obligations, or against any of its properties shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the prior payment, in full and in cash, of all Obligations; provided that, and not in contravention of the foregoing, so long as no Default has occurred and is continuing the Borrowers may make loans to and receive payments in the ordinary course with respect to such Guarantor Intercompany Indebtedness from any Guarantor to the extent permitted by the terms of the Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Notwithstanding any right of the Borrowers to ask, demand, sue for, take or receive any payment from any Guarantor, all rights, liens and security interests of the Borrowers, whether now or hereafter arising and howsoever existing, in any assets of any Guarantor shall be and are subordinated to the rights of the holders of the Obligations and the Global Administrative Agent in those assets. Except as otherwise permitted above, the Borrowers shall not have any right to possession of any such asset or to foreclose upon any such asset, whether by judicial action or otherwise, unless and until all of the Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations) and the Hedging Obligations owing to any Lender or any Affiliate thereof (such Hedging Obligations, the "") shall have been fully paid and satisfied (in cash) and all financing arrangements pursuant to any Loan Document among the Borrowers and the holders of the Obligations (or any affiliate thereof) have been terminated. If all or any part of the assets of any Guarantor, or the proceeds thereof, are subject to any distribution, division or application to the creditors of such Guarantor, whether partial or complete, voluntary or involuntary, and whether by reason of liquidation, bankruptcy, arrangement, receivership, assignment for the benefit of creditors or any other action or proceeding, or if the business of such Guarantor is dissolved or if substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor are sold, then, and in any such event (such events being herein referred to as an ""), any payment or distribution of any kind or character, either in cash, securities or other property, which shall be payable or deliverable upon or with respect to any indebtedness (excepting indebtedness for fees and other administrative charges, if any, as may from time to time accrue in the ordinary course of business) of any Guarantor to the Borrowers ("") shall be paid or delivered directly to the Global Administrative Agent for application on any of the Obligations and Hedging Liabilities, due or to become due, until such Obligations and Hedging Liabilities (other than contingent indemnity obligations) shall have first been fully paid and satisfied (in cash). Should any payment, distribution, security or instrument or proceeds thereof be received by the Borrowers upon or with respect to any Guarantor Intercompany Indebtedness after an Insolvency Event prior to the satisfaction of all of the Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations) and Hedging Liabilities and the termination of all financing arrangements pursuant to any Loan Document among the Borrowers and the holders of the Obligations (and their affiliates), the Borrowers shall receive and hold the same in trust, as trustee, for the benefit of the holders of the Obligations and such Hedging Liabilities and shall forthwith deliver the same to the Global Administrative Agent, for the benefit of such Persons, in precisely the form received (except for the endorsement or assignment of the Borrowers where necessary), for application to any of the Obligations and such Hedging Liabilities, due or not due, and, until so delivered, the same shall be held in trust by the Borrowers as the property of
Hedging Liabilities
Insolvency Event
Guarantor Intercompany Indebtedness
 
the holders of the Obligations and such Hedging Liabilities. If the Borrowers fail to make any such endorsement or assignment to the Global Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or any of its officers or employees are irrevocably authorized to make the same. The Borrowers agree that until the Obligations (other than the contingent indemnity obligations) and such Hedging Liabilities have been paid in full (in cash) and satisfied and all financing arrangements pursuant to any Loan Document among the Borrowers and the holders of the Obligations (and their affiliates) have been terminated, the Borrowers will not assign or transfer to any Person (other than the Global Administrative Agent) any claim the Borrowers have or may have against any Guarantor.
(ii) Each Guarantor agrees that any and all claims of such Guarantor against the Borrowers with respect to any "Borrower Intercompany Indebtedness" (as hereinafter defined), any endorser, obligor or any other guarantor of all or any part of the Obligations, or against any of its properties shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the prior payment, in full and in cash, of all Obligations; provided that, and not in contravention of the foregoing, so long as no Default has occurred and is continuing each Guarantor may make loans to and receive payments in the ordinary course with respect to such Borrower Intercompany Indebtedness from the Borrowers to the extent permitted by the terms of the Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Notwithstanding any right of any Guarantor to ask, demand, sue for, take or receive any payment from the Borrowers, all rights, liens and security interests of such Guarantor, whether now or hereafter arising and howsoever existing, in any assets of the Borrowers shall be and are subordinated to the rights of the holders of the Obligations and the Global Administrative Agent in those assets. Except as otherwise permitted above, no Guarantor shall have any right to possession of any such asset or to foreclose upon any such asset, whether by judicial action or otherwise, unless and until all of the Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations) and the Hedging Liabilities shall have been fully paid and satisfied (in cash) and all financing arrangements pursuant to any Loan Document among the Borrowers and the holders of Obligations (or any affiliate thereof) have been terminated. If all or any part of the assets of the Borrowers, or the proceeds thereof, are subject to any distribution, division or application to the creditors of the Borrowers, whether partial or complete, voluntary or involuntary, and whether by reason of liquidation, bankruptcy, arrangement, receivership, assignment for the benefit of creditors or any other action or proceeding, or if the business of any of the Borrowers is dissolved or if substantially all of the assets of any of the Borrowers are sold, then, and in any such event (such events being herein referred to as an ""), any payment or distribution of any kind or character, either in cash, securities or other property, which shall be payable or deliverable upon or with respect to any indebtedness (excepting indebtedness for fees and other administrative charges, if any, as may from time to time accrue in the ordinary course of business) of the Borrowers to any Guarantor ("") shall be paid or delivered directly to the Global Administrative Agent for application on any of the Obligations and Hedging Liabilities, due or to become due, until such Obligations and Hedging Liabilities (other than contingent indemnity obligations) shall have first been fully paid and satisfied (in cash). Should any payment, distribution, security or instrument or proceeds thereof be received by any Guarantor upon or with respect to any Borrower Intercompany Indebtedness after an Insolvency Event prior to the satisfaction of all of the Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations) and Hedging Liabilities and the termination of all financing arrangements pursuant to any Loan Document among the Borrowers and the holders of the Obligations (and their affiliates), the applicable Guarantor shall receive and hold the same in
Insolvency Event
Borrower Intercompany Indebtedness
 
trust, as trustee, for the benefit of the holders of the Obligations and such Hedging Liabilities and shall forthwith deliver the same to the Global Administrative Agent, for the benefit of such Persons, in precisely the form received (except for the endorsement or assignment of such Guarantor where necessary), for application to any of the Obligations and such Hedging Liabilities, due or not due, and, until so delivered, the same shall be held in trust by such Guarantor as the property of the holders of the Obligations and such Hedging Liabilities. If any Guarantor fails to make any such endorsement or assignment to the Global Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or any of its officers or employees are irrevocably authorized to make the same. Each Guarantor agrees that until the Obligations (other than the contingent indemnity obligations) and such Hedging Liabilities have been paid in full (in cash) and satisfied and all financing arrangements pursuant to any Loan Document among the Borrowers and the holders of the Obligations (and their affiliates) have been terminated, such Guarantor will not assign or transfer to any Person (other than the Global Administrative Agent) any claim such Guarantor has or may have against the Borrowers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[HARLEY-DAVIDSON, INC., a Wisconsin corporation] [HARLEY-DAVIDSON FUNDING CORP., a Delaware corporation] (the ""), promises to pay to the order of [] (the "") the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Syndicated Global Loans made by the Syndicated Global Lender to the Global Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement hereinafter referred to (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""; capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement), in immediately available funds on the dates and at the offices of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Global Administrative Agent, specified in the Agreement, together with interest on the unpaid principal amount hereof at the rates and on the dates determined in accordance with the Agreement. The Global Borrower shall pay the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on the Syndicated Global Loans in full on the Termination Date.
Global Borrower
                    
Syndicated Global Lender
Article II
Agreement
The Syndicated Global Lender shall, and is hereby authorized to, record on the schedule attached hereto, or otherwise record in accordance with its usual practice, the date and amount of each Syndicated Global Loan and the date and amount of each principal payment hereunder.
This Note is one of the Syndicated Global Notes issued pursuant to, and is entitled to the benefits of, the 4-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 28, 2011 entered into among the Global Borrower, [Harley-Davidson, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation,] [Harley-Davidson Funding Corp., a Delaware corporation,] Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Harley-Davidson Credit Corp., a Nevada corporation, the Opco Guarantors from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the Global Administrative Agent, and the institutions from time to time party thereto as Lenders, including the Syndicated Global Lender, to which Agreement, as it may be amended from time to time, reference is hereby made for a statement of the terms and conditions governing this Syndicated Global Note, including the terms and conditions under which this Syndicated Global Note may be prepaid or its maturity date accelerated. The Agreement, among other things, provides for the making of "Syndicated Global Loans" by the Syndicated Global Lender to the Global Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the Syndicated Global Lender's Commitment, except as otherwise contemplated in the Agreement.
Except as otherwise provided in the Agreement, the Global Borrower hereby waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind. No failure to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any rights hereunder on the part of the holder hereof shall operate as a waiver of such rights.
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO NATIONAL BANKS.
 
 
 
 
[HARLEY-DAVIDSON, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation] [HARLEY-DAVIDSON FUNDING CORP., a Delaware corporation] (the ""), promises to pay to the order of [] (the "") the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Bid Rate Loans made by the Syndicated Global Lender to the Global Borrower pursuant to of the Credit Agreement hereinafter referred to (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""; capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement), in immediately available funds on the dates and at the offices of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Global Administrative Agent, specified in the Agreement, together with interest on the unpaid principal amount hereof at the rates and on the dates determined in accordance with the Agreement. The Global Borrower shall pay the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on each Bid Rate Loan in full on the maturity date for such Bid Rate Loan determined in accordance with the Agreement.
Global Borrower
                    
Syndicated Global Lender
Article II
Agreement
The Syndicated Global Lender shall, and is hereby authorized to, record on the schedule attached hereto, or otherwise record in accordance with its usual practice, the date, amount, maturity date and other pertinent terms of, and the interest rate and interest payment dates applicable to, each Bid Rate Loan, and the date and amount of each principal payment hereunder.
This Bid Rate Note is one of the Bid Rate Notes issued pursuant to, and is entitled to the benefits of, the 4-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 28, 2011 entered into among the Global Borrower, [Harley-Davidson, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation,] [Harley-Davidson Funding Corp., a Delaware corporation,] Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Harley-Davidson Credit Corp., a Nevada corporation, the Opco Guarantors from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the Global Administrative Agent, and the institutions from time to time party thereto as Lenders, including the Syndicated Global Lender, to which Agreement, as it may be amended from time to time, reference is hereby made for a statement of the terms and conditions governing this Bid Rate Note, including the terms and conditions under which this Bid Rate Note may be prepaid or its maturity date accelerated.
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Global Borrower hereby waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind. No failure to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any rights hereunder on the part of the holder hereof shall operate as a waiver of such rights.
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO NATIONAL BANKS.
 
 
 
 
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and [] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement (as defined below), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
Annex 1
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Global Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including any letters of credit and guarantees included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
 
Effective Date: , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY GLOBAL ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
                        
            
        
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX I
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1 . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrowers, any of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrowers, any of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it satisfies the requirements, if any, specified in the Credit Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to acquire the Assigned Interest and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.1 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Global Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Non-U.S. Lender, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Global Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Global Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
 
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption electronically shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the state of New York, but giving effect to Federal laws applicable to national banks.
General Provisions
 
 
 
 
1. We refer to the 4-Year Credit Agreement (as it may be amended, modified, renewed or extended from time to time, the "") described in Item 5 of the Assignment Agreement defined below. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to them in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
2. This Notice of Assignment (this "") is given and delivered to the Global Administrative Agent pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
Notice
Section 13.3(B)
3. The Assignor and the Assignee have entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of , 20 (the ""), pursuant to which, among other things, the Assignor has sold, assigned, delegated and transferred to the Assignee, and the Assignee has purchased, accepted and assumed from the Assignor the Assigned Interest defined in the Assignment Agreement. The Effective Date of the Assignment Agreement shall be as specified in the Assignment Agreement.
                
    
    
Assignment Agreement
4. The Assignor and the Assignee hereby give to Harley and the Global Administrative Agent notice of the assignment and delegation referred to herein.
5. The Assignee hereby represents and warrants that none of the funds, monies, assets or other consideration being used to make the purchase pursuant to the Assignment Agreement are "plan assets" as defined under ERISA and that its rights, benefits, and interests in and under the Loan Documents will not be "plan assets" under ERISA.
 
6. The Assignee authorizes the Administrative Agent to act as its contractual representative under the Loan Documents in accordance with the terms thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to that certain 4-Year Credit Agreement (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "") dated as of April 28, 2011 entered into among Harley-Davidson, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation, Harley-Davidson Funding Corp., a Nevada corporation, Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Harley-Davidson Credit Corp., a Nevada corporation, the Opco Guarantors from time to time a party thereto, the institutions from time to time a party thereto (the "") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the Global Administrative Agent. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Lenders
Pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, Harley has requested an increase in the Aggregate Commitment from $ to $. Such increase in the Aggregate Commitment is to become effective on the date (the "") which is the later of (i)  , 20 and (ii) the date on which the conditions precedent set forth in Section 2.4(b)(i) in respect of such increase have been satisfied. In connection with such requested increase in the Aggregate Commitment, Harley, the Global Administrative Agent and (the "") hereby agree as follows:
Section 2.4
            
                    
Effective Date
            
    
    
                    
Accepting Bank
1. Effective as of the Effective Date, [the Accepting Bank shall become a party to the Credit Agreement as a Lender and shall have all of the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and shall thereupon have a Commitment under and for purposes of the Credit Agreement in an amount equal to the] [the Commitment of the Accepting Bank under the Credit Agreement shall be increased from $ to the] amount set forth opposite the Accepting Bank's name on the signature page hereof.
                    
[2. The Accepting Bank hereby (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Commitment and Acceptance Agreement; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Global Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iii) appoints and authorizes the Global Administrative Agent to take such action as contractual representative on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents as are delegated to the Global Administrative Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (iv) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.]
 
[3.] Harley hereby represents and warrants that as of the date hereof and as of the Effective Date, (a) all representations and warranties contained in Article V of the Credit Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as though made on such date (unless such representation and warranty is made as of a specific date, in which case such representation and warranty shall be true and correct as of such date) and (b) no event shall have occurred and then be continuing which constitutes a Default or an Unmatured Default.
[4.]
THIS COMMITMENT AND ACCEPTANCE AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO NATIONAL BANKS.
[5.] This Commitment and Acceptance Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Commitment and Acceptance Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
THIS JOINDER AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of , 200, is entered into between [New Subsidiary], a [] (the ""), and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., in its capacity as global administrative agent (the "") under that certain 4-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of April 28, 2011, entered into among Harley-Davidson, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation, Harley-Davidson Funding Corp., a Nevada corporation, Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Harley-Davidson Credit Corp., a Nevada corporation, the Opco Guarantors from time to time a party thereto, the institutions from time to time a party thereto (the "") and the Global Administrative Agent (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""). All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Agreement
                    
        
        
                    
New Subsidiary
Global Administrative Agent
Lenders
Credit Agreement
The New Subsidiary and the Global Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, hereby agree as follows:
1. The New Subsidiary hereby acknowledges, agrees and confirms that, by its execution of this Agreement, the New Subsidiary will be deemed to be a Company under the Credit Agreement and an "Opco Guarantor" and a "Guarantor" for all purposes of the Credit Agreement and shall have all of the obligations of a Company, an Opco Guarantor and a Guarantor thereunder as if it had executed the Credit Agreement. The New Subsidiary hereby ratifies, as of the date hereof, and agrees to be bound by, all of the terms, provisions and conditions contained in the Credit Agreement, including without limitation (a) all of the representations and warranties of the Companies set forth in of the Credit Agreement, (b) all of the covenants set forth in of the Credit Agreement and (c) all of the Guarantee obligations set forth in of the Credit Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing terms of this paragraph 1, the New Subsidiary, subject to the limitations set forth in of the Credit Agreement, hereby fully and unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, jointly with the other Guarantors and severally, the Obligations (including, without limitation, interest accruing hereunder after the commencement of any case under the United States Bankruptcy Code or any other bankruptcy-related rules or legislation in any country in which a Company is organized, whether or not allowed as a claim in such case), all as provided in of the Credit Agreement.
Article V
Article VI
Article XII
Article XII
Article XII
2. The New Subsidiary is, simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement, executing and delivering appropriate corporate or equivalent resolutions, other corporate or equivalent documentation and legal opinions (which may include inside counsel to the New Subsidiary for certain matters consistent with the matters covered in the inside counsel opinion delivered on the Closing Date) in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent and its counsel all in accordance with the Credit Agreement.
 
3. The address of the New Subsidiary for purposes of of the Credit Agreement is as follows:
Section 14.1
3700 West Juneau Avenue
Milwaukee, WI 53208
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone No.: (414) 343-7863
Facsimile No.: [                    ]
4. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.
5. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO BANKS.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the New Subsidiary has caused this Agreement to be duly executed by its authorized officer, and the Global Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, has caused the same to be accepted by its authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
 
 


