FILE:HOG/HOG-8K-20110307172436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 1, 2011, Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc. (""), a subsidiary of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the ""), entered into a Terms Agreement (the "") by and among HDFS and the initial purchasers named in the Terms Agreement (the "") in which HDFS agreed to sell, and the Initial Purchasers agreed to purchase, subject to certain terms and conditions, $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.875% Medium-Term Notes due 2016 (the ""). This offering was exempt from registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act. The sale was completed March 4, 2011. The Notes are guaranteed by Harley-Davidson Credit Corp. (""). The Notes were issued under an Indenture (the ""), dated as of March 4, 2011, by and among HDFS, HDCC and Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, as supplemented by an Officers' Certificate, dated March 4, 2011 (the "").
HDFS
Company
Terms Agreement
Initial Purchasers
Notes
HDCC
Indenture
Officers' Certificate
Interest on the Notes will accrue at the rate of 3.875% per annum and be payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing on September 15, 2011. HDFS has the ability to redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at its option at any time and from time to time. The redemption price for the Notes will be the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes being redeemed, discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis, as provided in the Indenture and the Officers' Certificate. If a below investment grade rating of the Notes occurs in connection with a change of control of the Company, then HDFS will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes on the terms set forth in the Notes. In the offer, HDFS will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase.
The Notes are unsecured senior obligations of HDFS and rank equal in right of payment to all of the other unsecured and unsubordinated debt of HDFS. The Notes are fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed on an unsecured, senior and unsubordinated basis by HDCC. The Notes are not obligations of or guaranteed by the Company. HDFS is party to an existing support agreement with the Company under which the Company agrees to provide financial support to HDFS if required to maintain certain financial covenants. The support agreement does not constitute a guarantee by the Company of the payment of any obligations or other liabilities of HDFS (including, without limitation, the Notes).
The Terms Agreement was entered into pursuant to a Private Placement Agency Agreement, which contains customary representations, warranties and agreements of HDFS, conditions to closing, indemnification rights and obligations of the parties and termination provisions.
The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or the securities laws of any other jurisdiction and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS INDENTURE, dated as of March 4, 2011 (the "") among HARLEY-DAVIDSON FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the ""), having its principal office at 222 West Adams Street, Suite 2000, Chicago, Illinois 60606, HARLEY-DAVIDSON CREDIT CORP., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Nevada (the ""), having its principal office at 3850 Arrowhead Drive, Carson City, Nevada 89706, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the ""), the office of the trustee at which at the date hereof its corporate trust business is principally administered being 2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602.
Indenture
Company
Guarantor
Trustee
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its senior unsecured notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the ""), unlimited as to principal amount, to be issued in one or more series and to have such other provisions as in this Indenture provided.
Securities
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture. All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
For value received, the Guarantor named herein has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the Guarantee of the Securities provided for herein. All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement of the Guarantor, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
This Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder that are required to be part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, shall be governed by such provisions.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders (hereinafter defined) thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities, as follows:
SECTION 101. .
Definitions
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted in the United States of America at the date of such computation; , , that, notwithstanding any other provision hereof to the contrary, the determination of whether a lease constitutes a capital lease or an operating lease, and whether obligations arising under a lease are required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee thereunder and/or recognized as interest expense, shall be determined by reference to GAAP as in effect on the date hereof; and
GAAP
provided
however
(4) the words, "", "" and "" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
herein
hereof
hereunder
Certain terms, used principally in certain Articles hereof, are defined in those Articles.
"" means any Person engaged in the practice of accounting who (except when this Indenture provides that an Accountant must be Independent) may be employed by or affiliated with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.
Accountant
"", when used with respect to any holder of a Security, has the meaning specified in .
Act
Section 104
"" means any additional amounts which are required hereby or by any Security, under circumstances specified herein or therein, to be paid by the Company in respect of certain taxes, duties, assessments or other governmental charges imposed on Holders specified therein and which are owing to such Holders.
Additional Amounts
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "", when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting Securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "" and "" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
control
controlling
controlled
"" means the Trustee or any Person authorized by the Trustee pursuant to to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of one or more series.
Authenticating Agent
Section 613
"" means a newspaper, in the English language or in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or
Authorized Newspaper
 
not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in each place in which publication is required under the terms hereof or under the terms of the Securities of a particular series or in the financial community of such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different Authorized Newspapers in the same city meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any day that is a Business Day in the place of publication.
"" means any Security in the form established pursuant to which is payable to bearer including, without limitation, unless the context otherwise indicates, a Security in temporary or permanent global bearer form.
Bearer Security
Section 201
"", when used with respect to any Place of Payment or any other particular location referred to in this Indenture or in the Securities, means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to , any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment, The City of New York, or other location are authorized or obligated by or pursuant to law or executive order to close.
Business Day
Section 301
"" means an obligation that is required to be classified and accounted for as a capitalized lease for financial reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP as in effect on the date hereof; and the amount of Indebtedness represented by such obligation will be the capitalized amount of such obligation determined in accordance with GAAP as in effect on the date hereof; and the stated maturity thereof will be the date of the last payment of rent or any other amount due under such lease prior to the first date upon which such lease may be terminated by the lessee without payment of a penalty.
Capital Lease Obligation
"" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, Luxembourg (or any successor thereto).
Clearstream, Luxembourg
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, or, if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission
"" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
Company
"" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board of directors.
Company Board of Directors
"" means a copy of one or more resolutions certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, to have been duly adopted by the Company Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Board Resolution
"" means a certificate signed by (i) the Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President of the Company, and (ii) the Treasurer, an Assistant
Company Officers' Certificate
 
Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
"" or "" means a written order or request, as the case may be, signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President, a Vice President, its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Controller, an Assistant Controller, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Order
Company Request
"" refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
"" means the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as one enterprise as reflected in the Company's most recent consolidated balance sheet preceding the date of determination prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, less (a) all current liabilities, excluding current maturities of long-term debt and Capital Lease Obligations, and (b) all goodwill, tradenames, trademarks, patents, minority interests of others, unamortized debt discount and expense and other similar intangible assets, excluding any investments in permits or licenses.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
"" means the cessation of use of (i) a Foreign Currency both by the government of the country or the confederation which issued such Foreign Currency and for the settlement of transactions by a central bank or other public institutions of or within the international banking community, (ii) the Euro both within the EMU and for the settlement of transactions by public institutions of or within the EMU or (iii) any currency unit or composite currency other than the Euro for the purposes for which it was established.
Conversion Event
"" means the principal office of the Trustee in Chicago, Illinois, at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is that indicated in the introductory paragraph of this Indenture.
Corporate Trust Office
"" means a corporation, partnership, association, limited liability company, other company, business trust or statutory trust.
Corporation
"" means any interest coupon appertaining to a Bearer Security.
Coupon
"" means the alphanumeric designation assigned to a Security by Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., CUSIP Service Bureau.
CUSIP number
"" has the meaning specified in .
Defaulted Interest
Section 307
"" means, with respect to any Security issuable or issued in the form of one or more global Securities, the Person designated as depository by the Company in or pursuant to this Indenture, and, unless otherwise provided with respect to any Security, any successor to such Person. If at any time there is more than one such Person, "" shall mean, with respect to any Securities, the depository which has been appointed with respect to such Securities.
Depository
Depository
"" or "" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Dollar
$
 
"" means a Subsidiary organized under the laws of a jurisdiction located in the United States of America.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means the Treaty establishing the European Communities (signed in Rome on 25 March 1957), as amended by the Treaty on European Union, as amended (signed in Maastricht on 7 February 1992).
EC Treaty
"" means European Economic and Monetary Union.
EMU
"" means the lawful currency of the member states of the European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the EC Treaty.
Euro
"" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System (or any successor thereto).
Euroclear
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 501
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means any currency, currency unit or composite currency issued by the government of one or more countries other than the United States of America or by any recognized confederation or association of such government.
Foreign Currency
"" means securities which are (i) direct obligations of the United States or the other government or governments in the confederation which issued the Foreign Currency in which the principal of or any premium or interest on such Security or any Additional Amounts in respect thereof shall be payable, in each case where the payment or payments thereunder are supported by the full faith and credit of such government or governments or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States or such other government or governments, in each case where the timely payment or payments thereunder are unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States or such other government or governments, and which, in the case of (i) or (ii), are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer or issuers thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of or other amount with respect to any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of or other amount with respect to the Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
Government Obligations
"" means the unconditional and irrevocable guarantee of the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, the Securities by the Guarantor, as more fully set forth in .
Guarantee
Article Fourteen
 
"" means the Person named as "Guarantor" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Guarantor" shall mean such successor Person.
Guarantor
"" means the board of directors of the Guarantor or any committee of that board duly authorized to act generally or in any particular respect for the Guarantor hereunder.
Guarantor's Board of Directors
"" means a copy of one or more resolutions, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Guarantor to have been duly adopted by the Guarantor's Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, is delivered to the Trustee.
Guarantor's Board Resolution
"" means a certificate signed by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Guarantor, that complies with the requirements of Section 314(e) of the Trust Indenture Act and is delivered to the Trustee.
Guarantor's Officers' Certificate
"" and "" mean, respectively, a written request or order signed in the name of the Guarantor by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Guarantor, and delivered to the Trustee.
Guarantor Request
Guarantor Order
"" means Harley-Davidson, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Wisconsin.
HDI
"", in the case of a Registered Security, means the Person in whose name the Security is registered in the Security Register and, in the case of a Bearer Security, means the bearer thereof and, in the case of any Coupon, means the bearer thereof.
Holder
"" means, with respect to any Person, (without duplication) (a) any liability of such Person (1) for borrowed money, or under any reimbursement obligation relating to a letter of credit, or (2) evidenced by a bond, note, debenture or similar instrument (including a purchase money obligation arising in connection with the acquisition of any businesses, properties or assets of any kind, but excluding any earnout obligation) if and to the extent any of the foregoing would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP (other than a trade payable or a current liability arising in the ordinary course of business), or (3) for the payment of money relating to any Capital Lease Obligations; (b) any liability of others described in the preceding clause (a) that the Person has guaranteed or that is otherwise its legal liability; (c) any amendment, supplement, modification, deferral, renewal, extension or refunding of any liability of the types referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above; and (d) in the case of any Subsidiary, the aggregate preference in respect of amounts payable on the issued and outstanding shares of preferred stock of such Subsidiary in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up (excluding any such preference attributable to such shares of preferred stock that are owned by the Guarantor or any Subsidiary thereof).
Indebtedness
 
"" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and by the terms and conditions of such Security and any Coupon appertaining thereto established pursuant to (as such terms and provisions may be amended pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof); , , that, if at any time more than one Person is acting as Trustee under this instrument, "" shall mean, with respect to any one or more series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee, this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of those particular series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee established pursuant to , exclusive, however, of any provisions or terms which relate solely to other series of Securities for which such Person is not Trustee, regardless of when such terms or provisions were adopted.
Indenture
Section 301
provided
however
Indenture
Section 301
"", when used with respect to any specified Person, means such a Person who is in fact independent of the Company and the Guarantor and any other obligor upon the Securities, does not have any direct financial interest or any material indirect financial interest in the Company, in the Guarantor or in any such other obligor or in an Affiliate of the Company and the Guarantor or such other obligor and is not connected with the Company, the Guarantor or any such other obligor as an officer, employee, promoter, underwriter, trustee, partner, director or Person performing similar functions. Whenever it is herein provided that an opinion or certificate of any Independent Person shall be furnished to the Trustee, such Person shall be appointed by Company Order and approved by the Trustee in the exercise of reasonable care and such opinion or certificate shall state that the signer has read this definition and that the signer is Independent within the meaning thereof.
Independent
"", when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
interest
"", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
Interest Payment Date
"" has the meaning specified in .
Judgment Currency
Section 116
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest, charge or other encumbrance or preferential arrangement (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement or lease in the nature thereof other than a title retention agreement in connection with the purchase of goods in the ordinary course of business which is outstanding for not more than 90 days).
Lien
"" means, as to any Person, any Domestic Subsidiary of such Person with consolidated shareholders' equity equal to or greater than 5% of the consolidated shareholders' equity of such Person (as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter for which such Person's financial statements have been issued), or net income (for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then most recently ended for which such Person's financial statements have been issued and during which the consolidated net income of such Person was not a loss), after elimination of intercompany items, equal to or greater than 10% of consolidated net income (for such period) of such Person.
Material Subsidiary
 
"", with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity, by declaration of acceleration, upon any redemption or otherwise and includes the Redemption Date.
Maturity
"" has the meaning specified in .
New York Banking Day
Section 116
"" means a written opinion, reasonably acceptable to the Trustee, of counsel, who may be counsel for or an employee of the Company or the Guarantor or other counsel and, where applicable, the Company and the Guarantor and, that, if required by the Trust Indenture Act, complies with the requirements of Section 314(e) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Opinion of Counsel
"" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to .
Original Issue Discount Security
Section 502
"", when used with respect to any Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all such Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
(i) any such Security theretofore cancelled by the Security Registrar or the Trustee or delivered to the Security Registrar or the Trustee for cancellation;
(ii) any such Security for whose payment at the Maturity thereof or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited pursuant hereto (other than pursuant to ) with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company or the Guarantor) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company or Guarantor (if the Company or the Guarantor shall act as Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities and any Coupons appertaining thereto; , that if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
Section 403
provided
(iii) any such Security with respect to which the Company has effected defeasance or covenant defeasance pursuant to , except to the extent provided in ; and
Section 403
Section 403
(iv) any such Security which has been paid pursuant to or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Security in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Security is held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Security is a valid obligation of the Company;
Section 306
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder are present at a meeting of Holders of Securities for quorum purposes, (a) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that may be counted in making such determination and that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be the principal amount thereof that, pursuant to the terms of such Original Issue Discount Security, would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof
provided
however
 
pursuant to , (b) the principal amount of a Security denominated in a Foreign Currency shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined on the date of original issuance of such Security by the Company in good faith, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the amount determined as provided in (a) above), of such Security, and (c) Securities owned by the Company, the Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company, the Guarantor or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver or upon any such determination as to the presence of a quorum, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company, the Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company, the Guarantor or such other obligor.
Section 502
"" means any Person, including the Company, authorized by the Company to pay the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security on behalf of the Company.
Paying Agent
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint venture, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"", when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such place or places specified in a supplemental indenture where, subject to the provisions of , the principal of, premium, if any, interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of that series are payable as provided in or pursuant to this Indenture or such Securities.
Place of Payment
Section 1002
"" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same indebtedness as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or a Security to which a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertains shall be deemed to evidence the same indebtedness as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or the Security to which the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertains, as the case may be.
Predecessor Security
Section 306
"" means any asset, revenue or any other property, whether tangible or intangible, real or personal, including, without limitation, any right to receive income.
Property
"", when used with respect to any Security or portion thereof to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture or such Security.
Redemption Date
 
"", when used with respect to any Security or portion thereof to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture or such Security.
Redemption Price
"" means any Security established pursuant to which is registered in the Security Register.
Registered Security
Section 201
"" for the interest payable on any Registered Security on any Interest Payment Date therefor means the date, if any, specified in or pursuant to this Indenture or such Security as the record date for the payment of such interest.
Regular Record Date
"" has the meaning specified in .
Required Currency
Section 116
"", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer within the corporate trust department (or any successor group of the Trustee), including any vice president, any assistant vice president, any trust officer or assistant trust officer, or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
"" or "" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any note or notes, bond or bonds or any other evidences of indebtedness, as the case may be, authenticated and delivered from time to time under this Indenture; , , that, if at any time there is more than one Person acting as Trustee under this Indenture, "", with respect to any such Person, shall mean Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, exclusive, however, of Securities of any series as to which such Person is not Trustee.
Security
Securities
provided
however
Securities
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning specified in .
Security Register
Section 305
"" means the Person appointed by the Company to register Registered Securities and transfers of Registered Securities as provided in .
Security Registrar
Section 305
"" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of any series means the date determined pursuant to .
Special Record Date
Section 307
"", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon or any Additional Amounts with respect thereto, means the date established by or pursuant to this Indenture or specified in such Security or a Coupon representing such installment of interest as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is, or such Additional Amounts with respect thereto are, due and payable.
Stated Maturity
 
"" means (i) any Corporation more than 50% of the outstanding securities having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries, or (ii) any association, joint venture or similar business organization more than 50% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled.
Subsidiary
"" means the agreement dated September 26, 1996 (and all amendments and supplements thereto), by and between the Company and HDI, whereby, under certain circumstances, HDI agrees to provide the Company certain financial support.
Support Agreement
"" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such with respect to one or more series of Securities pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder; , , that if at any time there is more than one such Person, "" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
Trustee
Trustee
provided
however
Trustee
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and any reference herein to the Trust Indenture Act or a particular provision thereof shall mean such Act or provision, as the case may be, as amended or replaced from time to time or as supplemented from time to time by rule or regulations adopted by the Commission under or in furtherance of the purposes of such Act or provision, as the case may be.
Trust Indenture Act
"" means the United States of America (including the states thereof and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
United States
"" means any Person who, for United States Federal income tax purposes, is a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual, a non-resident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust, or a foreign partnership one or more of the members of which is, for United States Federal income tax purposes, a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual or a non-resident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust.
United States Alien
"" means, with respect to any Security issuable or issued in the form of one or more global Securities, the Person designated as U.S. Depositary by the Company pursuant to , which must be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and, if so provided pursuant to with respect to any Security, any successor to such Person. If at any time there is more than one such Person, "U.S. Depositary" shall mean, with respect to any Securities, the qualifying entity which has been appointed with respect to such Securities.
U.S. Depositary
Section 301
Section 301
"", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
Vice President
 
SECTION 102. .
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
Except as otherwise expressly provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, upon any application or request by the Company or the Guarantor (i) to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture or (ii) to any Authenticating Agent to authenticate Securities of any series upon original issuance, the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, shall furnish to the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent (with a copy to the Trustee) a Company Officers' Certificate or a Guarantor's Officers' Certificate, as the case may be, stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with, an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, and, in the case of conditions precedent compliance with which is subject to verification by Accountants, engineers, appraisers or other experts, a certificate or opinion of an Accountant, engineer, appraiser or other expert (which Accountant, engineer, appraiser or other expert shall be Independent if required by the Trust Indenture Act).
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance by the Company or the Guarantor with a condition or covenant provided for in or pursuant to this Indenture shall include:
(1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
SECTION 103.
.
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company or the Guarantor may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon an Opinion of Counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the opinion with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company or the Guarantor stating that the information with
 
respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous. Any Opinion of Counsel may be based on the written opinion of other counsel, in which event such Opinion of Counsel shall be accompanied by a copy of such other counsel's opinion and shall include a statement to the effect that such counsel believes that such counsel and the Trustee may reasonably rely upon the opinion of such other counsel.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
SECTION 104. .
Acts of Holders
(a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by or pursuant to this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing. If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided in or pursuant to this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders of such series may, alternatively, be embodied in and evidenced by the record of Holders of Securities of such series voting in favor thereof, either in person or by proxies duly appointed in writing, at any meeting of Holders of Securities of such series duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of , or a combination of such instruments and any such record. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments or record or both are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company and the Guarantor. Such instrument or instruments and any such record (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments and so voting at any such meeting. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent, or of the holding by any Person of a Security, shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 315 of the Trust Indenture Act) conclusive in favor of the Trustee or the Company and the Guarantor and any agent of the Trustee or the Company and the Guarantor, if made in the manner provided in this . The record of any meeting of Holders of Securities shall be proved in the manner provided in .
Article Thirteen
Act
Section 104
Section 1306
Without limiting the generality of this , unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, a Holder, including a Depository that is a Holder of a global Security, may make, give or take, by a proxy, or proxies, duly appointed in writing, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided in or pursuant to this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders, and a Depository that is a Holder of a global Security may provide its proxy or proxies to the beneficial owners of interests in any such global Security through such Depository's standing instructions and customary practices.
Section 104
 
(b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved in any reasonable manner which the Trustee deems sufficient and in accordance with such reasonable rules as the Trustee may determine; and the Trustee may in any instance require further proof with respect to any of the matters referred to in this .
Section 104
(c) The ownership, principal amount and serial numbers of Registered Securities held by any Person, and the date of commencement and the date of termination of holding the same, shall be proved by the Security Register.
(d) The ownership, principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, may be proved by the production of such Bearer Securities or by a certificate executed, as depositary, by any trust company, bank, banker or other depositary reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Guarantor, wherever situated, if such certificate shall be deemed by the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee to be satisfactory, showing that at the date therein mentioned such Person had on deposit with such depositary, or exhibited to it, the Bearer Securities therein described; or such facts may be proved by the certificate or affidavit of the Person holding such Bearer Securities, if such certificate or affidavit is deemed by the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee to be satisfactory. The Trustee, the Guarantor and the Company may assume that such ownership of any Bearer Security continues until (1) another certificate or affidavit bearing a later date issued in respect of the same Bearer Security is produced, or (2) such Bearer Security is produced to the Trustee by some other Person, or (3) such Bearer Security is surrendered in exchange for a Registered Security, or (4) such Bearer Security is no longer Outstanding. The ownership, principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Company and the Trustee deem sufficient.
(e) If the Company or the Guarantor shall solicit from the Holders of any Registered Securities any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, may at its option (but is not obligated to), by Company Board Resolution or Guarantor's Board Resolution, as the case may be, fix in advance a record date, which shall be not more than 60 days prior to the first solicitation of such Holders, for the determination of Holders of Registered Securities entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of Registered Securities of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purpose of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
 
(f) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee, any Security Registrar, any Paying Agent, the Guarantor or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
SECTION 105. .
Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company and Guarantor
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
(1) the Trustee by any Holder, the Guarantor or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing (which may include a facsimile transmission) to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, or
(2) the Company or the Guarantor by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, or delivered by facsimile transmission to the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, addressed to it to the attention of its Treasurer at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this Indenture, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be.
The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon instructions or directions pursuant to this Indenture sent by unsecured e-mail, pdf, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods; , , that the Trustee shall have received an incumbency certificate listing persons designated to give such instructions or directions and containing specimen signatures of such designated persons, which such incumbency certificate shall be amended and replaced whenever a person is to be added or deleted from the listing. If the Company and/or Guarantor elects to give the Trustee e-mail or facsimile instructions (or instructions by a similar electronic method) and the Trustee in its discretion elects to act upon such instructions, the Trustee's understanding of such instructions shall be deemed controlling. The Trustee shall not be liable for any losses, costs or expenses arising directly or indirectly from the Trustee's reliance upon and compliance with such instructions.
provided
however
SECTION 106. .
Notice to Holders of Securities; Waiver
Except as otherwise expressly provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of Securities of any event,
(1) such notice shall be sufficiently given to Holders of Registered Securities if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of a Registered Security affected by such event, at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Security
 
Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice; and
(2) such notice shall be sufficiently given to Holders of Bearer Securities if published on a Business Day in an Authorized Newspaper in The City of New York and in such other city or cities as may be specified in such Securities, at least twice, each such publication to be not earlier than the earliest date, and not later than the latest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice to Holders of Registered Securities by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. In any case where notice to Holders of Registered Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder of a Registered Security, shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Registered Securities or the sufficiency of any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities given as provided herein. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given or provided.
In case by reason of the suspension of publication of any Authorized Newspaper or Authorized Newspapers or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to publish any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, then such notification to Holders of Bearer Securities as shall be given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute sufficient notice to such Holders for every purpose hereunder. Neither the failure to give notice by publication to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, nor any defect in any notice so published, shall affect the sufficiency of any notice mailed to holders of Registered Securities given as provided herein.
Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders of Securities shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
SECTION 107. .
Language of Notice, Etc
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that, if the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, so elects, any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication.
SECTION 108. .
Trust Indenture Act
The parties hereto agree that this Indenture shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of an Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, and that all provisions which the Trust Indenture Act provides as automatically deemed to be included in an indenture to be qualified thereunder shall be included herein. In the
 
event of any conflict between the provisions hereof and any required provision of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision of the Trust Indenture Act shall control.
SECTION 109. .
Effect of Headings And Table of Contents
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
SECTION 110. .
Successors and Assigns
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company and the Guarantor shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 111. .
Severability Clause
In case any provision in this Indenture, any Securities or any Coupon shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 112. .
Benefits of Indenture
Nothing in this Indenture, any Securities or any Coupon, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, their successors hereunder and the Holders of Securities or Coupons, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
SECTION 113. .
Governing Law
Pursuant to New York General Obligations Law 5-1401, this Indenture and the Securities and Coupons shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to agreements made or instruments entered into and, in each case, performed in such state.
SECTION 114. .
Legal Holidays
Except as specified pursuant to , in any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, or where any date on which notice is required to be mailed or published shall not be a Business Day at the Corporate Trust Office, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities or Coupons other than a provision in the Securities of any series which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this ) payment of interest or principal, or premium, if any, or mailing or publication of such notice need not be made at such Place of Payment or at such Corporate Trust Office on such date, but such payment may be made, mailed or published on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment or at such Corporate Trust Office with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity, or other required date for the mailing or publication of such notice, as the case may be, and in the case of payment to be made on any such Security, no interest shall accrue or be payable as a result of the making of
Section 301
Section 114
 
such payment after any such nominal date, provided such payment is made in full on such next succeeding Business Day.
SECTION 115. .
Corporate Obligation
No recourse may be taken, directly or indirectly, against any incorporator, subscriber to the capital stock, stockholder, officer, director or employee of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee or of any predecessor or successor of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee with respect to, under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture, in any Security, or because of indebtedness evidenced thereby.
SECTION 116. .
Judgment Currency
Each of the Company and the Guarantor agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, that (a) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of, or premium or interest, if any, or Additional Amounts on the Securities of any series (the "") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the ""), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the New York Banking Day preceding that on which a final unappealable judgment is given and (b) its obligations under this Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (i) shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with clause (a)), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments, (ii) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable and (iii) shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other sum due under this Indenture. For purposes of the foregoing, "" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in The City of New York or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to be closed. The provisions of this shall not be applicable with respect to any payment due on a Security which is payable in Dollars.
Required Currency
Judgment Currency
New York Banking Day
Section 116
SECTION 117. .
Counterparts
This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
SECTION 118. .
Waiver of Jury Trial
EACH OF THE COMPANY, THE GUARANTOR AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING
 
ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
SECTION 119. .
Force Majeure
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or act of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
SECTION 201. .
Forms Generally
The Registered Securities, if any, of each series and the Bearer Securities, if any, of each series and related Coupons shall be in such form (including temporary or permanent global form as attached hereto as and ) as set forth in a Company Officer's Certificate, the officers executing such Company Officer's Certificate to be duly authorized pursuant to a Company Board Resolution, or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by or pursuant to this Indenture or any indenture supplemental hereto, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with any applicable law, rule regulation or with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing such Securities or Coupons, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities or Coupons.
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-2
Unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture or any Securities, the Securities shall be issuable in registered form without Coupons. Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by , Bearer Securities other than Bearer Securities in global form shall have interest Coupons attached.
Section 301
The definitive Securities and Coupons, if any, shall be printed, typewritten, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities or Coupons.
If is to be applicable to Securities of any series, established as contemplated by , then Securities of each such series shall bear a Guarantee in substantially the form set forth in . For any other series of Securities, the Guarantee shall be endorsed on the Securities and shall be substantially in the form set forth in a Guarantor's Officers' Certificate of the Guarantor, the officers executing the Guarantor's
Article Fourteen
Section 301
Section 1401
 
Officers' Certificate to be duly authorized pursuant to Guarantor's Board Resolutions, or one or more indentures supplemental hereto. If the form of the Guarantee to be endorsed on the Securities of any series is established by action taken pursuant to the Guarantor's Board Resolutions, a copy of the Guarantor's Board Resolutions certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Guarantor shall be delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery by the Company of the written order contemplated by for the authentication and delivery of such Securities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Guarantee to be endorsed on the Securities of any series may have such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other corrections from the forms thereof referred to above as are required or permitted by this Indenture and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with any applicable law, rule or regulation or with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing the same, in each case as evidenced by such execution.
Section 303
SECTION 202. .
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
SECTION 203. .
Securities in Global Form
Unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture or any Securities, the Securities shall be issuable in temporary or permanent global form. If Securities of a series are issuable in global form, then any such Security may provide that it or any number of such Securities shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series (or such lesser amount as is permitted by the terms thereof) represented thereby may from time to time be increased or reduced to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Security Registrar in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified in such Security or in a Company Order delivered to the Security Registrar with such Security. Subject to the provisions of and, if applicable, , the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall deliver and redeliver, in each case at the Company's expense, any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified in such Security or in a Company Order delivered pursuant to or , as applicable. If a Company Order pursuant to or has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery
Section 303
Section 304
Section 303
Section 304
Section 303
Section 304
 
of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, in the event a global Security is exchangeable for definitive Securities as provided in , then, unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series, the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall deliver and redeliver such global Security to the extent necessary to effect such exchanges, shall endorse such global Security to reflect any decrease in the principal amount thereto resulting from such exchanges and shall take such other actions, all as contemplated by .
Section 102
Section 305
Section 305
The provisions of the last sentence of shall apply to any Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Security Registrar the Security in global form together with written instructions (which need not comply with and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) (a copy of which instructions shall be delivered to the Trustee) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of .
Section 303
Section 102
Section 303
Notwithstanding the provisions of , unless otherwise specified as contemplated by , payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on and Additional Amounts in respect of any Security in permanent global form shall be made to the Holder thereof.
Section 307
Section 301
Notwithstanding the provisions of and except as provided in the preceding paragraph, the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, the Guarantor or of the Trustee shall treat a Person as the Holder of such principal amount of Outstanding Securities represented by a global Security (i) in the case of a permanent global Security in registered form, the Holder of such permanent global Security in registered form, or (ii) in the case of a permanent global Security in Bearer form, the Person or Persons specified pursuant to .
Section 308
Section 301
SECTION 301. .
Amount Unlimited: Issuable in Series
(a) The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. With respect to Securities to be authenticated and delivered hereunder, there shall be established in or pursuant to one or more Company Board Resolutions, and set forth in a Company Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto:
(1) the title of the Securities of the series in which such Securities shall be included;
 
(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to , , , or and except for any Securities which, pursuant to , are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder), and if such series may be reopened from time to time for the issuance of additional Securities of such series or to establish additional terms of such series;
Section 304
305
306
906
1107
Section 303
(3) whether Securities of the series are to be issuable as Registered Securities, Bearer Securities or both, whether Securities of the series are to be issuable with or without Coupons or both, and any restrictions applicable to the offer, sale or delivery of the Bearer Securities and the terms, if any, upon which Bearer Securities may be exchanged for Registered Securities;
(4) if any of such Securities are to be issuable in global form, when any of such Securities are to be issuable in global form and (i) whether such Securities are to be issued in temporary or permanent global form or both, (ii) whether beneficial owners of interests in any such global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of the same series and of like tenor and of any authorized form and denomination, and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner specified in , (iii) the name of the Depository with respect to any such global Security and (iv) if applicable and in addition to the Persons specified in Section 305, the Person or Persons who shall be entitled to make any endorsements on any such global Security and to give the instructions and take the other actions with respect to such global Security contemplated by the first paragraph of ;
Section 305
Section 203
(5) if any of such Securities are to be issuable as Bearer Securities, the date as of which any such Bearer Security shall be dated (if other than the date of original issuance of the first of such Securities to be issued);
(6) if any of such Securities are to be issuable as Bearer Securities, whether interest in respect of any portion of a temporary Bearer Security in global form payable in respect of an Interest Payment Date therefor prior to the exchange, if any, of such temporary Bearer Security for definitive Securities shall be paid to any clearing organization with respect to the portion of such temporary Bearer Security held for its account and, in such event, the terms and conditions (including any certification requirements) upon which any such interest payment received by a clearing organization will be credited to the Persons entitled to interest payable on such Interest Payment Date;
(7) (i) the Person to whom any interest on any Registered Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, (ii) the manner in which, or the Person to whom, any interest on any Bearer Security of the series shall be payable, if otherwise than upon presentation and surrender of the Coupons appertaining thereto as they severally mature, and (iii) the extent to which, or the manner in which, any interest payable on a temporary global
 
Security on an Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in ;
Section 304
(8) the date or dates, or the method or methods, if any, by which such date or dates shall be determined on which the principal, and premium, if any, of the Securities of the series is payable;
(9) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method or methods, if any, pursuant to which such rate or rates shall be determined, the date or dates from which any such interest shall accrue or the method or methods, if any, by which such date or dates are to be determined, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable, the Regular Record Date, if any, for any interest payable on any Registered Securities on any Interest Payment Date, whether and under what circumstances Additional Amounts on such Securities or any of them shall be payable, and the basis upon which interest shall be calculated, if other than that of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months;
(10) the place or places where, subject to the provisions of , the principal of, premium, if any, and interest (including Additional Amounts, if any) on Securities of the series shall be payable, any Registered Securities of the series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, Securities of the series may be surrendered for exchange, notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of the series and this Indenture may be served and where notice to Holders pursuant to will be published;
Section 1002
Section 106
(11) whether the Securities of a series or any of them are to be redeemable at the option of the Company and, if so, the date or dates on which, the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;
(12) whether the Company is obligated to redeem or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the date or dates on which, the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation and any provision for the remarketing of the Securities of the series so redeemed or purchased;
(13) the denominations in which any Registered Securities of the series shall be issuable, if other than the denominations provided in , and the denomination or denominations in which any Bearer Securities of the series shall be issuable, if other than the denominations provided in ;
Section 302
Section 302
(14) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of the Securities of the series or any of them which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to or the method by which such portion is to be determined;
Section 502
 
(15) if other than such coin or currency of the United States is at the time of payment legal tender for payment of public or private debts, the coin or currency, composite currencies or currency unit or units in which payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on or any Additional Amounts in respect of the Securities of the series or any of them shall be payable;
(16) if the principal of, premium, if any or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a coin or currency, composite currencies or currency unit or units other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the currency in which payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of such series as to which such election is made shall be payable, and the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made;
(17) whether the amount of payments of principal of, premium, if any, or interest (including Additional Amounts, if any) on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, formula or other method (which index, formula or method may be based, without limitation, on one or more currencies, currency units, composite currencies, commodities, equity indices or other indices), and, if so, the terms and conditions upon which and the manner in which such amounts shall be determined and paid or payable;
(18) any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or covenants of the Company or the Guarantor with respect to the Securities of the series or any of them, whether or not such Events of Default or covenants are consistent with the Events of Default or covenants set forth herein;
(19) if the Securities of the series are to be issuable in definitive form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security of such series) only upon receipt of certain certificates or other documents or satisfaction of other conditions, then the form and terms of such certificates, documents or conditions;
(20) with respect to any Securities that may be issued in a private offering, the restrictions on transfer and legends relating to such Securities of the series and whether Securities of the series are entitled to registration or exchange rights;
(21) if there is more than one Trustee, the identity of the Trustee and, if not the Trustee, the identity of each Security Registrar, Paying Agent and/or Authenticating Agent with respect to the Securities of the series;
(22) whether any of the Securities of a series shall be issued as Original Issue Discount Securities;
(23) whether a credit facility or other form of credit support will apply to Securities of such series, which may be different from any credit facility for any other series;
 
(24) whether relating to defeasance shall not be applicable to the Securities of such series, or any covenants in addition to those specified in relating to the Securities of such series which shall be subject to covenant of defeasance, and any deletions from, or modifications or additions to, the provisions of in respect of the Securities of such series;
Section 403
Section 403
Article Four
(25) whether any of such Securities are to be issuable upon the exercise of warrants, and the time, manner and place for such Securities to be authenticated and delivered; and
(26) any other terms of the Securities of the series or any of them (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture).
All Securities of any one series, and the Coupons appertaining to any Bearer Securities of such series, shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and the rate or rates of interest, if any, and Stated Maturity, the date from which interest, if any, shall accrue and except as may otherwise be provided by the Company in or pursuant to one or more Company Board Resolutions and set forth in such Company Officers' Certificate or in any indenture or indentures supplemental hereto pertaining to such series of Securities. The terms of the Securities of any series may provide, without limitation, that the Securities shall be authenticated and delivered by the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent on original issue from time to time upon written order of persons designated in the Company Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture and that such persons are authorized to determine, consistent with such Company Officers' Certificate or any applicable supplemental indenture, such terms and conditions of the Securities of such series as are specified in such Company Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture. All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the same time and, unless otherwise so provided by the Company, a series may be reopened for issuances of additional Securities of such series or to establish additional terms of such series of Securities.
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Company Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action (including but not limited to such Company Board Resolution) shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company or certified by Company Order and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Officers' Certificate or Company Order setting forth the terms of the series.
(b) The Trustee shall be provided with the following at or before the issuance of any Security issued under this Indenture:
(i) . Opinion(s) of Counsel (such counsel being entitled to rely upon certificates, opinions or representations as to matters of fact to the extent permitted by and, as to matters involving the laws of any state other than the state in which such counsel is admitted to practice, upon an Opinion of Counsel who shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) complying with the requirement of , if applicable, containing such qualifications and assumptions as may be appropriate in the circumstances, and addressed to the Trustee substantially to the effect that:
Opinion(s) of Counsel
Section 103
Section 102
 
(A) this Indenture and, if applicable, any supplemental indenture that is permitted by and and which relates to the series of Securities to which such opinion relates, have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Guarantor and constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company and the Guarantor, enforceable (except for as to which no opinion need be expressed) in accordance with their terms (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee), except as such enforceability is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other law relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and to general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
Sections 201
301
Section 111
(B) the series of Securities to which such opinion relates, together with any Coupons appertaining thereto, have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, and any such Security, when the terms thereof have been established in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and when such Security has been executed and authenticated in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (assuming the due authentication, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent, which fact counsel need not verify by an inspection of such Securities) and delivered and paid for in accordance with the terms of any underwriting agreement, agency agreement or other agreement providing for the sale thereof, will constitute (assuming no change in the facts or in the law and governmental rules and regulations, in either case in existence on the date such Opinion of Counsel is rendered) the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other law relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
(C) the Guarantee of the Securities to which such opinion relates, has been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Guarantor, and the Guarantee, when the terms thereof have been established in accordance with the terms of the Security and this Indenture and when the Guarantee has been executed and authenticated in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (assuming the due authentication, execution and delivery of the certificate of authentication of such Security by or on behalf of the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent, which fact counsel need not verify by an inspection of such Securities) and delivered and paid for in accordance with the terms of any underwriting agreement, agency agreement or other agreement providing for the issuance thereof, will constitute (assuming no change in the facts or in the law and governmental rules and regulations, in either case in existence on the date such Opinion of Counsel is rendered) the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Guarantor, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other law relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and general principles
 
of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
(D) the forms and terms of the series of Securities to which such opinion relates and any Coupons appertaining thereto and any related Guarantee have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture or, if such forms and terms are being established pursuant to one or more instruments being furnished to the Trustee concurrently with the delivery of such opinion, such instruments conform to the requirements of this Indenture;
(ii) . A Company Officers' Certificate and a Guarantor's Officers' Certificate stating that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and the execution and delivery of this Indenture will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default under, the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the Company, or any order of any court or administrative agency entered in any proceeding to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound or to which it is subject; and
Officers' Certificates
(iii) . A Company Board Resolution and a Guarantor's Board Resolution authorizing this Indenture and, if applicable, any supplemental indenture that is permitted by and and that relates to such series of Securities.
Board Resolutions
Sections 201
301
SECTION 302. .
Denominations
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to any series of Securities, any Registered Securities of a series denominated in Dollars shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof and any Bearer Securities of a series denominated in Dollars shall be issuable in the denomination of $5,000. Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to any series of Securities, any Securities of a series denominated in a currency other than Dollars shall be issuable in denominations that are the equivalent, as determined by the Company by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for such currency, as such rate is reported or otherwise made available by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, on the applicable trade date for such Securities, of $100,000 (rounded down to an integral multiple of 10,000 units of such currency), and any larger amount that is, as nearly as is practicable, an integral multiple of $1,000.
Section 301
Section 301
SECTION 303. .
Execution; Authentication; Delivery and Dating
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President, its Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer or one of its Vice Presidents attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile. Coupons shall bear the facsimile signature of the Chairman of the Board of the Company, its President, its Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer or one of its Vice Presidents, attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries.
Securities and Coupons bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company notwithstanding
 
that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or Coupons or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities or Coupons.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series, together with any Coupons appertaining thereto, executed by the Company to the Trustee or Authenticating Agent for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities and the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities; , , that, in connection with its original issuance, no Bearer Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States; and provided further, that a Bearer Security other than a temporary global Bearer Security may be delivered in connection with its original issuance only if Clearstream, Luxembourg or Euroclear, as the case may be, shall have furnished to the Security Registrar a certificate substantially to the effect that the Person entitled to receive such Bearer Security shall have furnished to Clearstream, Luxembourg or Euroclear, as the case may be, a certificate substantially in the form set forth in to this Indenture or in such other form of certificate as shall contain information then required by Federal income tax laws, dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date on which such Bearer Security is delivered and (ii) the date on which any temporary Security first becomes exchangeable for such Bearer Security in accordance with the terms of such temporary Security and this Indenture. A confirmation shall be sent by the Company or an agent thereof to each purchaser of a Bearer Security. If any Security shall be represented by a permanent global Bearer Security, then, for purposes of this and , the notation of a beneficial owner's interest therein upon original issuance of such Security or upon exchange of a portion of a temporary global Security shall be deemed to be delivery in connection with its original issuance of such beneficial owner's interest in such permanent global Bearer Security. Except as permitted by , the Trustee or Authenticating Agent shall not authenticate and deliver any Bearer Security unless all appurtenant Coupons for interest then matured have been detached and cancelled.
provided
however
Exhibit D
Section 303
Section 304
Section 306
The Trustee or any Authenticating Agent shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver such Securities if the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not lawfully be taken or if the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent, in good faith by a trust committee of directors or trustees and/or vice presidents, shall determine that such action may expose the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent to personal liability to existing Holders.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. Each Bearer Security and any temporary Bearer Security in global form shall be dated as of the date specified as contemplated by . Each Security will also bear an original issue date (the "") which, with respect to any Security (or portion thereof), shall mean the date of its original issuance and shall be specified therein. The Issue Date shall remain the same for all Securities subsequently issued upon transfer, exchange or substitution of Securities, regardless of their dates of authentication.
Section 301
Issue Date
No Security or Coupon shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee or any Authenticating
 
Agent by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Security Registrar for cancellation as provided in together with a written statement (a copy of which statement shall be delivered to the Trustee) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Section 309
SECTION 304. .
Temporary Securities; Exchange of Temporary Securities
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and, upon Company Order, the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent, as the case may be, shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form or, if authorized, in bearer form with one or more Coupons or without Coupons, and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities. Such temporary Securities may be in global form.
Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions thereof), if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company maintained pursuant to in a Place of Payment for such series for the purpose of exchanges of Securities of such series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series (accompanied by any unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto) the Company shall execute and the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of authorized denominations of the same series containing identical terms and provisions; , , that no definitive Bearer Security, except as provided pursuant to , shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Registered Security; and provided further, that a definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Bearer Security only in compliance with the conditions set forth in . Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by with respect to a temporary global Security, until so exchanged the temporary Security of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
Section 1002
provided
however
Section 301
Section 303
Section 301
SECTION 305. .
Registration. Registration of Transfer and Exchange
The Company shall cause to be kept for each series of Securities at one of the offices or agencies maintained pursuant to a register (each such register being referred to herein as the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may
Section 1002
Security Register
 
prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Registered Securities and the registration of transfers of Registered Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Registered Securities and transfers and exchanges of Registered Securities as herein provided; , that the Company may, from time to time, designate (or change any designation of) any other Person or Persons to act as Security Registrar or co-Security Registrars with respect to the Securities of one or more series, with notice to the Trustee and as provided in to the Holders. At all reasonable times the Security Register shall be open for inspection by the Company. In the event that the Trustee shall not be the Security Registrar, it shall have the right to examine the Security Register at all reasonable times.
provided
Section 106
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Registered Security of any series at the office or agency of the Company maintained pursuant to for such purpose in a Place of Payment for such series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Registered Securities of the same series and of like tenor of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity. Transfers of Registered Securities may be effected only as set forth in the preceding sentence.
Section 1002
At the option of the Holder, Registered Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Registered Securities of the same series of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at any such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
No Registered Security may be exchanged for a Bearer Security. If specified as contemplated by with respect to Securities of any series, at the option of the Holder, Bearer Securities of any series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity, upon surrender of the Bearer Securities to be exchanged at any such office or agency, with all unmatured Coupons and all matured Coupons in default thereto appertaining. If the Holder of a Bearer Security is unable to produce any such unmatured Coupon or Coupons or matured Coupon or Coupons in default, such exchange may be effected if the Bearer Securities are accompanied by payment in funds acceptable to the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee in an amount equal to the face amount of such missing Coupon or Coupons, or the surrender of such missing Coupon or Coupons may be waived by the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee if there is furnished to them such Security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to any Paying Agent any such missing Coupon in respect of which such a payment shall have been made, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount of such payment; , , that, except as otherwise provided in , interest represented by Coupons shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of those Coupons at an office or agency located outside the United States. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered at any such office or agency in exchange for a Registered Security of the same series and of like tenor after the close of business at such office or agency on (i) any
Section 301
provided
however
Section 1002
 
Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the Coupon relating to such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, and interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange for such Bearer Security, but will be payable only to the Holder of such Coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by , any permanent global Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. If the beneficial owners of interests in a permanent global Security are entitled to exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor and principal amount of another authorized form and denomination as specified as contemplated by , then without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee or Authenticating Agent definitive Securities in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Security, executed by the Company. On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, such permanent global Security shall be surrendered by the U.S. Depositary or such other Depository as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto, to the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities without charge and the Trustee or Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such permanent global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such permanent global Security to be exchanged which, unless the Securities of the series are not issuable both as Bearer Securities and as Registered Securities, as specified as contemplated by , shall be in the form of Bearer Securities or Registered Securities, or any combination thereof, as shall be specified by the beneficial owner thereof; , , that no such exchanges may occur during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any selection of Securities of that series to be redeemed and ending on the relevant Redemption Date; and provided further, that (unless otherwise specified as contemplated by ) no Bearer Security delivered in exchange for a portion of a permanent global Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States. If a Registered Security is issued in exchange for any portion of a permanent global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such Registered Security, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Person to whom interest in respect of
Section 301
Section 301
Section 301
provided
however
Section 301
 
such portion of such permanent global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company and the Guarantor, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Registered Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange or redemption shall (if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar or any transfer agent) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer substantially in the form attached hereto as duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
Exhibit B
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer, exchange or redemption of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to , or not involving any transfer.
Section 304
906
1107
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by , the Company shall not be required to (i) issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any selection of Securities of that series to be redeemed and ending at the close of business on (A) if Securities of the series are issuable only as Registered Securities, the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption and (B) if Securities of the series are issuable as Bearer Securities, the day of the first publication of the relevant notice of redemption, or, if Securities of the series are also issuable as Registered Securities and there is no publication, the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption, or (ii) register the transfer of or exchange any Registered Security so selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part, (iii) exchange any Bearer Security so selected for redemption except that such a Bearer Security may be exchanged for a Registered Security of the same series and of like tenor, provided that such Registered Security shall be simultaneously surrendered for redemption or (iv) issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security which, in accordance with its terms specified as contemplated by , has been surrendered for repayment at the option of the Holder, except the portion, if any, of such Security not repaid.
Section 301
Section 301
SECTION 306. .
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities and Coupons
If any mutilated Security or a Security with a mutilated Coupon appertaining to it is surrendered to the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent, the Company shall execute and the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, with Coupons corresponding to the Coupons, if any, appertaining to the surrendered Security.
 
If there shall be delivered to the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security or Coupon and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee that such Security or Coupon has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its request the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or in exchange for the Security to which a destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertains (with all appurtenant Coupons not destroyed, lost or stolen), a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, with Coupons corresponding to the Coupons, if any, appertaining to such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or to the Security to which such destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertains.
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or Coupon has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security or Coupon; , , that principal of, premium, if any, and interest on Bearer Securities shall, except as otherwise provided in , be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States and unless otherwise specified as contemplated by , any interest on Bearer Securities and any Additional Amounts with respect to such interest shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the Coupons appertaining thereto.
provided
however
Section 1002
Section 301
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this , the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee or Authenticating Agent) connected therewith.
Section 306
Every new Security of any series, with its Coupons, if any, issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security, or in exchange for a Security to which a destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertains shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security and its Coupons, if any, or the destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and any such new Security and Coupons, if any, shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series and of like tenor and their Coupons, if any, duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this , as amended or supplemented pursuant to this Indenture with respect to particular Securities or generally, shall (to the extent lawful) be exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or Coupons.
Section 306
SECTION 307. .
Payment of Interest and Certain Additional Amounts; Rights to Interest and Certain Additional Amounts Preserved
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to any series of Securities, interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to any Registered Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall
Section 301
 
be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest. In case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered in exchange for a Registered Security of such series after the close of business (at an office or agency in a Place of Payment for such series) on any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business (at such office or agency) on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the Coupon relating to such Interest Payment Date and interest will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange of such Bearer Security, but will be payable only to the Holder of such Coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
Any interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to any Registered Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company or the Guarantor, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:
Defaulted Interest
(1) The Company or the Guarantor may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest. The Company or the Guarantor shall, no less than 15 calendar days prior to the date of the Special Record Date (fixed as set forth below), notify the Trustee and the Paying Agent in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Registered Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, shall deposit with the Paying Agent an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Paying Agent for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest shall be the close of business on the tenth calendar day prior to the date of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall in the name and at the expense of the Company, cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Registered Securities of such series at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 calendar days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2). In case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for such series in exchange for a Registered Security of such series after the close of business at such office or agency on any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency an the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered with the
 
Coupon relating to such proposed date of payment and Defaulted Interest will not be payable on such proposed date of payment in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange for such Bearer Security, but will be payable only to the Holder of such Coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
(2) The Company or the Guarantor may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company or the Guarantor to the Trustee and the Paying Agent of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Paying Agent.
At the option of the Company, interest on the Registered Securities of any series that bears interest may be paid by mailing a check to the address of any Holder as such address shall appear in the Securities Register.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this and , each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Section 307
Section 305
SECTION 308. .
Persons Deemed Owners
Prior to due presentment of a Registered Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Registered Security is registered as the owner of such Registered Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to and ) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Sections 305
307
Title to any Bearer Security and any Coupons appertaining thereto shall pass by delivery. The Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee may treat the bearer of any Bearer Security and the bearer of any Coupon as the absolute owner of such Security or Coupon for the purpose of receiving payment thereof or on account thereof and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security or Coupon be overdue, and neither the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
No owner of any beneficial interest in any global Security held on its behalf by a Depository shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to such global Security, and such Depository may be treated by the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee, and any agent of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee as the owner of such global Security for all purposes whatsoever. None of the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or
 
payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
SECTION 309. .
Cancellation
All Securities and Coupons surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee. All Registered Securities and matured Coupons so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. The Company or the Guarantor may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company or the Guarantor may have acquired in any manner whatsoever and the Company may deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Security Registrar. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this , except as expressly permitted by or pursuant to this Indenture. All cancelled Securities and Coupons held by the Trustee shall be disposed of in accordance with the customary procedures of the Trustee.
Section 309
SECTION 310. .
Computation of Interest
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Section 301
SECTION 311. .
Support Agreement
The Trustee and Holders of any series of Securities and Coupons issued under this Indenture will be entitled to the benefits of the Support Agreement on the terms, and subject to the conditions, set forth in the Support Agreement, except in the circumstances contemplated by that would not constitute an Event of Default.
Section 501(5)
SECTION 312. .
CUSIP Numbers
The Company in issuing the Securities may use CUSIP numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing (which may be by facsimile transmission) of any change in the CUSIP numbers.
 
SECTION 401. .
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
This Indenture shall upon Company Request or Guarantor Request cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for, and any right to receive Additional Amounts, as provided in ), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, when
Section 1004
(1) either
(A) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered and all Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto (other than (i) Coupons appertaining to Bearer Securities surrendered in exchange for Registered Securities and maturing after such exchange, whose surrender is not required or has been waived as provided in , (ii) Securities and Coupons which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in , (iii) Coupons appertaining to Securities called for redemption and maturing after the relevant Redemption Date, whose surrender has been waived as provided in , and (iv) Securities and Coupons for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in ) have been delivered to the Security Registrar for cancellation; or
Section 305
Section 306
Section 1106
Section 1003
(B) all such Securities and, in the case of (i) or (ii) below, any Coupons appertaining thereto not theretofore delivered to the Security Registrar for cancellation
(i) have become due and payable; or
(ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year; or
(iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company and the Guarantor,
and the Company or the Guarantor, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds, in cash or Government Obligations, in trust for the purpose an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities and Coupons not theretofore delivered to the Security Registrar for cancellation, for principal, premium, if any, and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
 
(2) the Company or the Guarantor has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series and any Coupons appertaining thereto; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee a Company Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel and the Guarantor has delivered to the Trustee a Guarantor's Officers' Certificate, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
In the event there are Securities of two or more series hereunder, the Trustee shall be required to execute an instrument acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture only if requested to do so with respect to Securities of such series as to which it is Trustee and if the other conditions thereto are met.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities, the rights, privileges and immunities of the Trustee under , the obligations of the Company and the Guarantor to the Trustee under , the obligations of the Company to any Authenticating Agent under and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this , the obligations of the Trustee under , , and and the last paragraph of shall survive such satisfaction and discharge, with respect to the payment of Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to such Securities as contemplated by (but only to the extent that the Additional Amounts payable with respect to such Securities exceed the amount deposited in respect of such Additional Amounts pursuant to ).
Article Seven
Section 606
Section 613
Section 401
Sections 305
306
402
1002
Section 1003
Section 1004
Section 401(1)(B)
SECTION 402. .
Application of Trust Money
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of , all money and Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to and shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities, the Coupons and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, including, without limitation, to the Trustee, to the Company or as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct, of the principal, premium, if any, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, for the payment of which such money and Government Obligations have been deposited with the Trustee; but such money and Government Obligations need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Section 1003
Sections 401
403
SECTION 403. .
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
(1) Unless pursuant to , either or both of (i) defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under clause (2) of this shall not be applicable with respect to the Securities of such series or (ii) covenant defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under clause (3) of this shall not be applicable with respect to the Securities of such series, then such provisions, together with the other provisions of this (with such modifications thereto as may be specified pursuant to with respect to any Securities), shall be applicable to such Securities and any related Coupons, and the Company may at its
Section 301
Section 403
Section 403
Section 403
Section 301
 
option by Company Board Resolution, at any time, with respect to such Securities and any related Coupons, elect to have or be applied to such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this . Unless otherwise specified pursuant to with respect to the Securities of any series, defeasance under clause (2) of this and covenant defeasance under clause (3) of this may be effected only with respect to all, and not less than all, of the Outstanding Securities of any series. To the extent that the terms of any Security or Coupon appertaining thereto established in or pursuant to this Indenture permit the Company or any Holder thereof to extend the date on which any payment of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest, if any, on, or Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to such Security or Coupon is due and payable, then unless otherwise provided pursuant to , the right to extend such date shall terminate upon defeasance or covenant defeasance, as the case may be.
Section 403(2)
Section 403(3)
Section 403
Section 301
Section 403
Section 403
Section 301
(2) Upon the Company's exercise of the above option applicable to this Section 403(2) with respect to any Securities of or within a series, each of the Company and the Guarantor shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons and of the Guarantee in respect thereof on the date the conditions set forth in clause (4) of this are satisfied (hereinafter, ""). For this purpose, such defeasance means that the Company and the Guarantor shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons, and under the Guarantee in respect thereof, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "Outstanding" only for the purposes of clause (5) of this and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) below, and to have satisfied all of its other obligations under such Securities and any related Coupons, and under the Guarantee in respect thereof, and this Indenture insofar as such Securities and any related Coupons and under the Guarantee in respect thereof, are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company and the Guarantor, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (i) the rights of Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons to receive, solely from the trust fund described in clause (4) of this and as more fully set forth in such clause, payments in respect of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and additional interest, if any, on, and Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to, such Securities and any related Coupons when such payments are due, (ii) the obligations of the Company and the Trustee with respect to such Securities under , , and and with respect to the payment of Additional Amounts, if any, on such Securities as contemplated by (but only to the extent that the Additional Amounts payable with respect to such Securities exceed the amount deposited in respect of such Additional Amounts pursuant to ), (iii) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (iv) , this and . The Company may exercise its option under this notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under clause (3) of this with respect to such Securities and any related Coupons.
Section 403
defeasance
Section 403
Section 403
Sections 305
306
1002
1003
Section 1004
Section 403(4)(a)
Section 402
Section 403
Section 404
Section 403(2)
Section 403
(3) Upon the Company's exercise of the option to have this apply with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Company shall be released from its obligations under , and and, to the extent specified pursuant to , any other covenant applicable to such Securities, with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons on and after the date the conditions set forth in clause (4) of this are
Section 403(3)
Sections 1005
1006
1007
Section 301
Section 403
 
satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and such Securities and any related Coupons shall thereafter be deemed to be not "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with any such covenant, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, (i) with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons, the Company may omit to comply with, and shall have no liability in respect of, any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such Section or such other covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or such other covenant or by reason of reference in any such Section or such other covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a default or an Event of Default under Section 501(4) or or otherwise, as the case may be, and (ii) the occurrence of any event or condition specified in shall not constitute an Event of Default with respect to such Outstanding Securities, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities and related Coupons shall be unaffected thereby.
covenant defeasance
501(10)
Section 501(6)
(4) The following shall be the conditions to application of clause (2) or (3) of this to any Outstanding Securities of or within a series and any related Coupons:
Section 403
(a) The Company or the Guarantor shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities and any related Coupons, (1) an amount in Dollars or in such Foreign Currency in which such Securities and any related Coupons are then specified as payable at Stated Maturity, or (2) Government Obligations applicable to such Securities and related Coupons (determined on the basis of the currency in which such Securities and related Coupons are then specified as payable at Stated Maturity) which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest and additional interest, if any, on such Securities and any related Coupons, money in an amount, or (3) a combination thereof, in any case, in an amount, sufficient, without consideration of any reinvestment of such principal and interest, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, (y) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on and Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons at the Stated Maturity of such principal or installment of principal or premium or interest and (z) any mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous payments applicable to such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons on the days on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and of such Securities and any related Coupons.
Section 607
Section 403
(b) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other agreement or
 
instrument to which the Company or the Guarantor is a party or by which it is bound if the breach, violation or default would have a material adverse effect on the Company or the Guarantor.
(c) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest as defined in this Indenture and for purposes of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to any Securities.
(d) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in the trust created by this deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, unless the trust is registered under that Act as exempt from that registration.
(e) The Company must deliver to the Trustee a Company Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made with the intent of preferring the Holders of Outstanding Securities over other creditors with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding such creditors or others.
(f) No Event of Default or event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default with respect to such Securities and any related Coupons shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of establishment of such trust and, with respect to defeasance only, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period).
(g) In the case of an election under clause (2) of this , the Company or the Guarantor shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (i) the Company or the Guarantor has received from the Internal Revenue Service a letter ruling, or there has been published by the Internal Revenue Service a Revenue Ruling, or (ii) since the date of execution of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred.
Section 403
(h) In the case of an election under clause (3) of this , the Company or the Guarantor shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred.
Section 403
(i) The Company or the Guarantor shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that, assuming no intervening bankruptcy of the
 
Company or the Guarantor between the date of deposit and the 91
st
day following the deposit and assuming that no Holder is an "insider" of the Company under applicable bankruptcy law, after the 91st day after the date of establishment of such trust, all money and Government Obligations (or other property as may be provided pursuant to Section 301) (including the proceeds thereof) deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) pursuant to this clause (4) to be held in trust will not be subject to the effect of section 547 of the United States Bankruptcy Code or any applicable state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar law affecting creditors.
(j) The Company or the Guarantor shall have delivered to the Trustee a Company Officers' Certificate or a Guarantor's Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent to the defeasance or covenant defeasance under clause (2) or (3) of this (as the case may be) have been complied with.
Section 403
(k) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this , such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional or substitute terms, conditions or limitations which may be imposed on the Company or the Guarantor in connection therewith pursuant to .
Section 403(4)
Section 301
Unless otherwise specified in or pursuant to this Indenture or any Security, if, after a deposit referred to in has been made, (a) the Holder of a Security in respect of which such deposit was made is entitled to, and does, elect pursuant to or the terms of such Security to receive payment in a currency other than that in which the deposit pursuant to has been made in respect of such Security, or (b) a Conversion Event occurs in respect of the Foreign Currency in which the deposit pursuant to has been made, the indebtedness represented by such Security and any related Coupons shall be deemed to have been, and will be, fully discharged and satisfied through the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, and Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to, such Security as the same becomes due out of the proceeds yielded by converting (from time to time as specified below in the case of any such election) the amount or other property deposited in respect of such Security into the currency in which such Security becomes payable as a result of such election or Conversion Event based on (x) in the case of payments made pursuant to clause (a) above, the applicable market exchange rate for such currency in effect on the second Business Day prior to each payment date, or (y) with respect to a Conversion Event, the applicable market exchange rate for such Foreign Currency in effect (as nearly as feasible) at the time of the Conversion Event.
Section 403(4)(a)
Section 301
Section 403(4)(a)
Section 403(4)(a)
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of , the "Trustee") against any tax, fee or other charge, imposed on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited pursuant to this or the principal or interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related Coupons.
Section 402
Section 403
Anything in this to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request, or the Guarantor, as the case
Section 403
 
may be, upon a Guarantor Request, any money or Government Obligations (or other property and any proceeds therefrom) held by it as provided in clause (4) of this which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect a defeasance or covenant defeasance, as applicable, in accordance with this .
Section 403
Section 403
SECTION 404. .
Reinstatement
If the Trustee is unable to apply any money or Government Obligations deposited in accordance with or by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's and the Guarantor's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities and Coupons, if any, of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to or until such time as the Trustee is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with or ; , , that if the Company or the Guarantor has made any payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Securities and Coupons of such series because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company or the Guarantor shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such series of Securities and Coupons to receive such payment from the money or Government Obligations held by the Trustee.
Section 401
403
Section 401
403
Section 401
403
provided
however
SECTION 501. .
Events of Default
"", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any of the following events (whatsoever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body) unless it is either inapplicable to a particular series or it is specifically deleted or modified in or pursuant to the supplemental indenture, Company Board Resolution or Company Officers' Certificate establishing such series of Securities or in the form of Security for such series pursuant to this Indenture:
Event of Default
(1) default in the payment of any interest upon or any Additional Amounts payable in respect of any interest on any Security of such series or any related Coupon when such interest or Additional Amounts become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(2) default in the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, on any Security of such series at its Maturity; or
(3) default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when, as and if due by the terms of a Security of that series, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
 
(4) default in the observance or performance of any covenant or agreement of the Company or the Guarantor on its part to be observed or performed contained in this Indenture (other than a covenant or agreement a default in the performance of which is elsewhere in this specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of one or more series of Securities other than that series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of thirty (30) days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company and the Guarantor by the Trustee or to the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
Section 501
(5) the Support Agreement shall have been terminated or revoked or HDI refuses to perform or otherwise breaches any of its obligations therein or thereunder or the Support Agreement or any provision thereof otherwise becomes unenforceable for any reason unless, prior to such termination, revocation, refusal to perform, breach or unenforceability, each of Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (""), Moody's Investor Service, Inc. ("") and any other "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act) then rating the Securities at the Company's request, has confirmed that the rating assigned to the Securities by such rating agency immediately prior to such termination, revocation, refusal to perform, breach or unenforceability, will not be downgraded as a result of such termination, revocation, refusal to perform, breach or unenforceability of the Support Agreement; or
S&P
Moody's
(6) any event of default by the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries as defined in any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any Indebtedness of the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries, as the case may be, whether such Indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, resulting in such Indebtedness in principal amount of at least $25,000,000 becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise become due and payable, and such acceleration shall not be rescinded or annulled within a period of 30 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company and the Guarantor by the Trustee or to the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(7) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect for the benefit of the Holders of Securities of any series, HDI in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect for the benefit of the
 
Holders, HDI bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect for the benefit of the Holders, HDI under any applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect for the benefit of the Holders, HDI, or of any substantial part of the property of the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in effect for the benefit of the Holders, HDI or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect for the benefit of the Holders, HDI, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(8) the commencement by the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect for the benefit of the Holders, HDI of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect for the benefit of the Holders, HDI to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of it in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect for the benefit of the Holders, HDI of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable federal or state law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect for the benefit of the Holders, HDI of any substantial part of their respective property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors generally, or the admission by the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries or, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect for the benefit of the Holders, HDI in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company or the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries, so long as the Support Agreement shall continue to be in effect for the benefit of the Holders, to authorize any such action; or
(9) final judgment of money in excess of $25,000,000 (not covered by third-party insurance), singularly or in the aggregate, shall be rendered against the Company or
 
the Guarantor or any of their respective Material Subsidiaries and shall remain undischarged and unstayed for a period (during which execution shall not be effectively stayed) of 60 days after such judgment becomes final; or
(10) any other Event of Default provided in or pursuant to this Indenture with respect to Securities of such series.
SECTION 502. .
Acceleration of Maturity: Rescission and Annulment
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, then either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if any of the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Securities of that series, and accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Amounts, if any, thereon to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company and the Guarantor (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) and such accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Amounts, if any, thereon shall become immediately due and payable.
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made, but before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this provided, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
Article Five
(1) the Company or the Guarantor has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
(A) all overdue interest on and any Additional Amounts payable in respect of all Securities of that series,
(B) the principal of, and premium, if any, on any Securities of that series which has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and any interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities,
(C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
(D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and
(2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of the principal of, any premium and interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to Securities which has become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in .
Section 513
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or, impair any right consequent thereon.
An Event of Default described in paragraph (7) or (8) of shall cause the principal amount of (and premium, if any)(or such lesser amount as provided for in the Securities of such series) and accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to the Securities of such series to become immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act by the Trustee or any Holder.
Section 501
SECTION 503. .
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
The Company and the Guarantor covenant with respect to Securities of any series, that if
(1) default is made in payment of any interest on or any Additional Amounts payable in respect of any Security of such series when such interest or Additional Amounts become due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
(2) default is made in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, on, or any Security of such series at the Maturity thereof, or
(3) default is made in the deposit of any sinking fund payment when due by the terms of a security of that series,
the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities of such series and related Coupons, the whole amount of money then due and payable with respect to such Securities of such series and Coupons for principal, premium, if any, and interest or Additional Amounts, if any, and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal, premium, if any, and on any overdue interest or any Additional Amounts, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities of such series and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
If the Company or the Guarantor fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree and may enforce the same against the Company or the Guarantor or any other obligor upon such Securities of such series and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or the Guarantor or any other obligor upon such Securities of such series, wherever situated.
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights, including the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related Coupons, by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or such
 
Securities or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein or therein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
SECTION 504. .
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or the Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company, the Guarantor or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company or the Guarantor for the payment of any overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
(i) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal, premium, if any, and interest and any Additional Amounts owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders of Securities and Coupons allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
(ii) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such Judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder of Securities and Coupons to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders of Securities and Coupons, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under .
Section 606
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder of a Security or Coupon any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or Coupons or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder of a Security or Coupon in any such proceeding.
SECTION 505. .
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities or Coupons
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities or Coupons may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or Coupons or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable
 
benefit of the Holders of the Securities and Coupons in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
SECTION 506. .
Application of Money Collected
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal, premium, if any, or interest or any Additional Amounts, upon presentation of the Securities or Coupons, or both, as the case may be, and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
Article Five
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under ;
Section 606
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of, premium, if any, and interest or any Additional Amounts payable in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities and Coupons for principal and any premium and interest or any Additional Amounts, respectively; and
THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Company or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
SECTION 507. .
Limitation on Suits
No Holder of any Security of any series or any related Coupons shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
(1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made a written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(3) such Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture (including,
 
without limitation, the provisions of ) to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders), or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all such Holders.
Section 512
SECTION 508. .
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium, Interest and Additional Amounts
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security or Coupon shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to and ) any interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to such Security or such Coupon, as the case may be, on the respective Stated Maturity or Maturities therefor specified in such Security or Coupon (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Sections 305
307
SECTION 509. .
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
If the Trustee or any Holder of a Security or Coupon has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee and the Holders of Securities and Coupons shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
SECTION 510. .
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or Coupons in the last paragraph of , no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or Coupons is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Section 306
SECTION 511. .
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security or Coupon to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or Coupons may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities or Coupons, as the case may be.
Article Five
 
SECTION 512. .
Control by Holders of Securities
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series and any Coupons appertaining thereto; that
provided
(1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture,
(2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction, and
(3) the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee in good faith shall, by a Responsible Officer or officers of the Trustee, determine that the action so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability.
SECTION 513. .
Waiver of Past Defaults
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series and any related Coupons waive any past default or Event of Default hereunder with respect to the Securities of such series and its consequences, except a default
(1) in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on or Additional Amounts payable in respect of any Security of such series or Coupons appertaining thereto, or
(2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
Article Ten
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default with respect to such series arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
SECTION 514. .
Undertaking for Costs
All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security or Coupon by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Company, to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any
Section 514
 
Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder of any Security or Coupon for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on or any Additional Amounts in respect of any Security or the payment of any Coupon on or after the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security or Coupon (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date).
SECTION 515. .
Waiver of Usury, Stay or Extension Laws
Each of the Company and the Guarantor covenants that (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury law or any other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company and the Guarantor from paying all or any portion of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest, if any, on or Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to any Securities as contemplated herein and therein or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and each of the Company and the Guarantor expressly waives (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
SECTION 601. .
Notice of Defaults
Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, notice of such default hereunder known to the Trustee, unless such default shall have been cured or waived; , , that, except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest or any Additional Amounts or any sinking fund installment with respect to, any Security of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice of and so long as a trust committee of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series; and , , that in the case of any default of the character specified in with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this , the term "" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
provided
however
provided
further
Section 501(4)
Section 601
default
SECTION 602. .
Certain Rights of Trustee
Subject to the provisions of Sections 315(a) through 315(d) of the Trust Indenture Act:
(a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion,
 
report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order or of the Guarantor mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Guarantor Request or a Guarantor Order or as otherwise expressly provided herein and any resolution of the Company's Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Board Resolution or of a Guarantor's Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by the Guarantor's Board Resolution;
(c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon a Company Officers' Certificate or, if such matter pertains to the Guarantor, the Guarantor's Officers' Certificate;
(d) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related Coupons pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company and the Guarantor, personally or by agent or attorney, and the Trustee shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
(g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
 
(h) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment, action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion, rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
(i) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it;
(j) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture;
(k) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; and
(l) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver a Company Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Company Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign a Company Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded.
(m) The Trustee may, and shall, upon receipt of a written request by Holders of not less than 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities and the offer of by such Holders of indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the cost, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request, on behalf of the Holders and on its own behalf, enforce the obligations of HDI to the Company under the Support Agreement only if the Company has not pursued, or is not pursuing, its rights under the Support Agreement in a prompt or otherwise diligent manner (an ""). If (1) the Trustee for 60 days after receipt of such request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute such enforcement action, (2) no direction inconsistent with such request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes, and (3) a Holder has given written notice of the occurrence of an Enforcement Event, then such Holder of an Outstanding Security shall have the right to enforce the rights of the Company under the Support Agreement.
Enforcement Event
(n) In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
 
SECTION 602A. .
Certain Duties and Responsibilities
(a) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default,
(i) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
(b) In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
(c) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that
(i) this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of Subsection (1) of this ; and
Section 602A
(ii) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series; and
(d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this .
Section 602A
SECTION 603. .
Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, or any document issued in connection with the sale of the Securities (except the Trustee's certificates of authentication) and in any Coupons shall be taken as the statements of the Company and the Guarantor, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee
 
makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities or Coupons, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder and, if applicable, that the statements made by it in a Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 supplied to the Company are true and accurate, subject to the qualifications set forth therein. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof or any money paid to the Company or upon the Company's direction under any provision hereof. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee, without limiting the application of any other provision of this Indenture.
SECTION 604. .
May Hold Securities
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Trustee, the Company or the Guarantor, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and Coupons and, subject to Sections 310(b) and 311 of the Trust Indenture Act, may otherwise deal with the Company and the Guarantor with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or other agent.
SECTION 605. .
Money Held in Trust
Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law and shall be held uninvested. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company or the Guarantor.
SECTION 606. .
Compensation and Reimbursement
The Company and the Guarantor agree, jointly and severally, in each case:
(1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Trustee for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture or arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been attributable to its own negligence or willful misconduct; and
(3) to indemnify each of the Trustee and any successor Trustee and its agents, officers, directors and employees for, and to hold them harmless against, any and all loss, liability, damage, claim or expense, including taxes (other than taxes based on the income of the Trustee) incurred without negligence or willful misconduct on their part, arising
 
out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending themselves against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, the Guarantor, a Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder except to the extent that any such loss, liability or expense was determined to have been due to the Trustee's own negligence or willful misconduct.
As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company and the Guarantor under this , the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities of any series upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, interest, if any, on or Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to, particular Securities or any related Coupons.
Section 606
The obligations of the Company under this to compensate and indemnify the Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional Indebtedness under this Indenture and shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee, the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and any rejection or termination of this Indenture under any applicable bankruptcy law.
Section 606
If the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in or  has occurred, those expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its agents and attorneys) and its compensation for services shall be preferred over the status of the Holders in any reorganization or similar proceeding and the parties hereto, and the Holders, by their acceptance of the Securities, hereby agree that such expenses, compensation and indemnity are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable bankruptcy law.
Section 501(7)
(8)
SECTION 607. .
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder that is a corporation, organized and doing business under the laws of the United States, eligible under Section 310(a)(1) and (5) of the Trust Indenture Act to act as trustee under the Trust Indenture Act, and that has a combined capital and surplus (computed in accordance with Section 310(a)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act) of at least $50,000,000. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this , it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this .
Section 607
Article Six
SECTION 608. .
Disqualification, Conflicting Interests
If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest, as defined in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall either eliminate such conflicting interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to, Section 310 of the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture.
SECTION 609. .
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this shall become effective until the acceptance
Article Six
 
of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of .
Section 610
(b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company and the Guarantor. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
Section 610
(c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Trustee and to the Company and the Guarantor. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
Section 610
(d) If at any time:
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the obligations imposed on it under Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to the Securities of any series after written request therefor by the Company or the Guarantor or by any Holder of a Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months, or
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 607 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or the Guarantor or by any such Holder, or
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any such case, (i) the Company, by or pursuant to a Company Order, or the Guarantor, by or pursuant to a Guarantor's Order may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities of such series, or (ii) subject to , any Holder of a Security of such series who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated (including those who have been Holders for less than six months), petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
Section 514
(e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by or pursuant to a Company Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of
 
that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and such successor Trustee or Trustees shall comply with the applicable requirements of . If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company, the Guarantor and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of , become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company and the Guarantor. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company and the Guarantor or the Holders of Securities and accepted appointment in the manner required by , any Holder of a Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated (including those who have been Holders for less than six months), petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
Section 610
Section 610
Section 610
(f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series by mailing written notice of such event by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of Registered Securities, if any, of such series as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register and, if Securities of such series are issued as Bearer Securities, by publishing notice of such event once in an Authorized Newspaper in each Place of Payment located outside the United States. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
(g) In no event shall any retiring Trustee be liable for the acts or omissions of any successor Trustee hereunder.
SECTION 610. .
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
(a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company, the Guarantor and the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company, the Guarantor or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
 
(b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the Guarantor, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees as co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and that no Trustee shall be responsible for any notice given to, or received by, or any act or failure to act on the part of any other Trustee hereunder; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein, such retiring Trustee shall have no further responsibility for the exercise of rights and powers or for the performance of the duties and obligations vested in the Trustee under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates other than as hereinafter expressly set forth, and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company, the Guarantor or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall upon payment of all amounts owed it hereunder, duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
(c) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company and the Guarantor shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this , as the case may be.
Section 610
(d) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this .
Article Six
 
SECTION 611. .
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this , without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
Article Six
SECTION 612. .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Company and the Guarantor
If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company or the Guarantor (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of Section 311 of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company or the Guarantor (or any such other obligor).
SECTION 613. .
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
The Trustee may, with the consent of the Company and the Guarantor, appoint an Authenticating Agent or Authenticating Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issue or upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to , and if the Trustee is required to appoint one or more Authenticating Agents with respect to any series of Securities, to authenticate Securities of such series upon original issuance and to take such other actions as are specified in , and , and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this or in any other Section of this Indenture, an Authenticating Agent shall not be authorized to authenticate Securities constituting the first issuance of Securities of any series until and unless the requirements of have been, or are concurrently therewith being, complied with.
Section 306
Sections 303
304
309
Section 613
Section 301
Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and the Guarantor, and except as specified by , each Authenticating Agent shall at all times be a corporation that would be permitted by Section 310(a)(1) and (5) of the Trust Indenture Act to be able to act as a trustee under an indenture qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, is authorized under applicable law and by its charter to act as such and that has a combined capital and surplus (computed in accordance with Section 310(a)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act) of not less than
Section 301
 
$50,000,000. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this , such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this . If the Authenticating Agent has or shall acquire any conflicting interest, as defined in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, with respect to Securities of any series, the Authenticating Agent shall take action as is required pursuant to said Section 310(b).
Section 613
Section 613
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate agency or corporate trust business of such Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent; , that such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section 613, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent.
provided
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee, the Guarantor and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent, the Guarantor and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this , the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and the Guarantor and shall (i) mail written notice of such appointment by first class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Registered Securities, if any, of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, and (ii) if Securities of the series are issued as Bearer Securities, publish notice of such appointment at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the place where such successor Authenticating Agent has its principal office if such office is located outside the United States. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this .
Section 613
Section 613
The Company and the Guarantor agree to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this .
Section 613
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section 613, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative certificate of authentication in the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
If all of the Securities of a series may not be originally issued at one time, and if the Trustee does not have an office capable of authenticating Securities upon original issuance located in a Place of Payment where the Company wishes to have Securities of such series authenticated upon original issuance, the Trustee, if so requested by the Company in writing (which writing need not comply with and need not be accompanied by an opinion of Counsel), shall appoint in, accordance with this an Authenticating Agent having an office in a Place of Payment designated by the Company with respect to such series of Securities.
Section 102
Section 613
SECTION 701. .
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders
In accordance with Section 312(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
(a) semiannually, on dates mutually acceptable to the Trustee and the Company, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities as of a date mutually acceptable to the Trustee and the Company, and
(b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content, such list to be dated as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as the Trustee is the Security Registrar with respect to a particular series of Securities, no such list shall be required to be furnished in respect of such series.
SECTION 702. .
Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders
The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
Section 701
Section 701
 
The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
Every Holder of Securities or Coupons, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company, the Guarantor, the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities in accordance with Section 312 of the Trust Indenture Act, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 703. .
Reports by Trustee
(a) Within 60 days after May 15 of each year commencing with the year following the first issuance of Securities pursuant to , if required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall transmit pursuant to Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, a brief report dated as of such May 15 with respect to any of the events specified in Sections 313(a) and 313(b)(2) which may have occurred since the later of the immediately preceding May 15 and the date of this Indenture.
Section 301
(b) The Trustee shall transmit the reports required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act at the times specified therein.
(c) Reports pursuant to this shall be transmitted in the manner and to the Persons required by Sections 313(c) and (d) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 703
(d) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange, if any, upon which the Securities are listed and with the Company. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing when the Securities are listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
SECTION 704. .
Reports by Company and the Guarantor
(a) The Company and the Guarantor, as applicable, shall:
(1) file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of said Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, to the extent required by and in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required
 
pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a Security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations;
(2) unless the Company and the Guarantor furnish information to the Commission in accordance with Rule 12g3-2(b) under or pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, promptly furnish or cause to be furnished such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144(d)(4) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) to any Holder or beneficial owner of a Security or to a prospective purchaser of a Security who is designated by such Holder or beneficial owner and is a qualified institutional buyer (as defined in Rule 144A), upon the request of such Holder or beneficial owner or prospective purchaser, in order to permit compliance by such Holder or beneficial owner with Rule 144A under the Securities Act.;
(3) file with the Trustee and the Commission, to the extent required by and in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, with the conditions and covenants of this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations;
(4) transmit to Holders within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company or the Guarantor pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section 704 as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission;
(5) transmit within 30 days after May 15 of each year to the Trustee, a brief certificate from the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company and the Guarantor as to his or her knowledge of such obligor's compliance with all conditions and covenants under this Indenture, as determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under this Indenture;
(6) transmit to the Trustee as soon as available and in any event within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year of the Company, a copy of the Company's Consolidated balance sheet as of the end of the Company's fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity of the Company for such fiscal year, accompanied by an opinion by Ernst & Young LLP or other nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants having been prepared in accordance with GAAP;
(7) transmit to the Trustee as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, the unaudited Consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of the end of such quarter and unaudited Consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity of the Company for such quarter and for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter; and
 
(8) transmit to the Trustee as soon as possible, and in any event within five days after the occurrence of each Event of Default (or an event that, with the passage of time or the giving of notice, or both, would become an Event of Default) continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer of the Company and the Guarantor setting forth details of such Event of Default or event and the action that the Company or the Guarantor have taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.
(b) Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's or the Guarantor's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Company Officers' Certificates or Guarantor's Officers' Certificates).
SECTION 801. .
Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms
The Company shall not merge or consolidate with or into any other Person or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose (in each case excluding any pledge) of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to any Person, unless:
(1) either (A) the Company shall be the continuing Person (in the case of a merger), or (B) the successor Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or which acquires by sale, assignment, transfer, lease or other conveyance all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company shall be a Corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States or any state thereof and shall expressly assume, by an indenture (or indentures, if at such time there is more than one Trustee) supplemental hereto, executed by such successor Corporation and the Guarantor and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to, all the Outstanding Securities and the due and punctual performance and observance of every obligation in this Indenture and the Outstanding Securities on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
(2) at the time of such proposed transaction and immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any Indebtedness which becomes an obligation of the Company and the Guarantor as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing;
(3) the Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect; and
 
(4) either the Company or the successor Person shall have delivered to the Trustee a Company Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with. No such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease shall be permitted by this unless prior thereto the Guarantor shall have delivered to the Trustee a Guarantor's Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that the Guarantor's obligations hereunder shall remain in full force and effect thereafter.
Article Eight
Section 801
SECTION 802. .
Successor Person Substituted for Company
Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company as an entity or substantially as an entirety in accordance with , the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be released from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and Coupons.
Section 801
SECTION 803. .
The Guarantor May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms
The Guarantor shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person (whether or not affiliated with the Guarantor), or convey, transfer or lease (in each case excluding any pledge) its properties and assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to any other Person (whether or not affiliated with the Guarantor), unless:
(1) either (A) the Guarantor shall be the continuing Person (in the case of a merger), or (B) the successor Person (if other than the Guarantor) formed by such consolidation or into which the Guarantor is merged or which acquires by sale, assignment, transfer, lease or other conveyance all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Guarantor shall be a Corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States or any state thereof and shall expressly assume, by an indenture (or indentures, if at such time there is more than one Trustee) supplemental hereto, executed by such successor Corporation and the Company and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to, all the Outstanding Securities and the due and punctual performance and observance of every obligation in this Indenture and the Guarantee on the part of the Guarantor to be performed or observed;
(2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing;
 
(3) the Guarantee (other than the Guarantee of the Guarantor (subject to clause 803(1) hereof)) shall remain in full force and effect; and
(4) either the Guarantor or the successor Person shall have delivered to the Trustee a Guarantor's Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with. No such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease shall be permitted by this unless prior thereto the Guarantor shall have delivered to the Trustee a Guarantor's Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that the Guarantor's obligations hereunder shall remain in full force and effect thereafter.
Article Eight
Section 803
SECTION 804. .
Successor Person Substituted for the Guarantor
Upon any consolidation or merger or any conveyance, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Guarantor to any Person in accordance with , the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Guarantor is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Guarantor under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named a Guarantor herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease to another Person, the predecessor Person shall be released from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture.
Section 803
SECTION 901. .
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
Without the consent of any Holders of Securities or Coupons, the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Company Board Resolution, the Guarantor, when authorized by or pursuant to a Guarantor's Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto for any of the following purposes:
(1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company or the Guarantor, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company or the Guarantor herein and in the Securities; or
(2) to add to the covenants of the Company or the Guarantor for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company or the Guarantor with respect to all or any series of the Securities; or
 
(3) to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of the Securities (and, if such Event of Default is applicable to less than all series of Securities, specifying the series to which such Event of Default is applicable); or
(4) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to provide that Bearer Securities may be registrable as to principal, to change or eliminate any restrictions on the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on Bearer Securities, to permit Bearer Securities to be issued in exchange for Registered Securities, to permit Bearer Securities to be issued in exchange for Bearer Securities of other authorized denominations or to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form; , that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related Coupons in any material respect; or
provided
(5) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series and any related Coupons as permitted by and ; or
Sections 201
301
(6) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of ; or
Section 610(b)
(7) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make or amend any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture; , that such other provisions as may be made shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related Coupons in any material respect; or
provided
(8) to modify, eliminate or add to the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary or helpful to effect the qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act and to modify, eliminate or add to the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary or helpful to conform to any mandatory or optional provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as the same may from time to time be amended; or
(9) to add to, delete from or revise the conditions, limitations and restrictions on the authorized amount, terms or purposes of issue, authentication and delivery of Securities, as herein set forth; or
(10) to modify, eliminate or add to the provisions of any Security to allow for such Security to be held in certificated form by the Holder thereof; or
(11) to secure the Securities of the applicable series; or
(12) to amend or supplement any provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture or in any Securities (which amendment or supplement may apply to one or more series of Securities or to one or more Securities within any series as
 
specified in such supplemental indenture or indentures), provided that such amendment or supplement does not apply to any Outstanding Security issued prior to the date of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefits of such provision; or
(13) to modify, delete or add to any of the provisions of this Indenture other than as contemplated by clauses (1) through (12) of this , provided that any such modification, deletion or addition shall become effective only with respect to series of Securities established pursuant to after the effective date of such modification, deletion or addition; or
Section 901
Section 301
(14) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture in connection with the issuance of any Bearer Securities to comply with United States federal income tax provisions relating to the deductibility of interest.
Any amendment described in clause (7) above made solely to conform this Indenture to the final offering memorandum provided to investors in connection with the offering of the Securities by the Company and the Guarantor will not be deemed to materially and adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related Coupons.
SECTION 902. .
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series (voting together as a single class) affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee, the Company (when authorized by or pursuant to a Company Board Resolution) the Guarantor (when authorized by or pursuant to a Guarantor's Board Resolution) and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related Coupons under this Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
provided
however
(1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or premium, if any, or any installment of interest, if any, on, or any Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate (or modify the calculation of such rate) of interest thereon, or reduce any Additional Amounts payable with respect thereto or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof or otherwise, or change the obligation of the Company to pay Additional Amounts pursuant to (except as contemplated by and permitted by ), or reduce the amount of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to or the amount thereof provable in bankruptcy pursuant to , or change the Place of Payment where or the coin or currency in which the principal of, any premium or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Security is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date) in each case as such Stated Maturity, Redemption Date or date for repayment may, if
Section 1004
Section 801(1)
Section 901(1)
Section 502
Section 504
 
applicable, be extended in accordance with the terms of such Security or any Coupon appertaining thereto; or
(2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or reduce the requirements of for quorum or voting; or
Section 1304
(3) modify any of the provisions of this , or , except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby.
Section 902
Section 513
Section 1010
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders of Securities under this to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 902
SECTION 903. .
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to Section 315 of the Trust Indenture Act) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture, a Company Officers' Certificate and a Guarantor's Officers' Certificate of the Guarantor stating that all conditions precedent to the execution of such supplemental indenture have been fulfilled. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties, immunities or liabilities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Article Nine
SECTION 904. .
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this , this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder and of any Coupons appertaining shall be bound thereby.
Article Nine
SECTION 905. .
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Article Nine
 
SECTION 906. .
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this may, and shall if required by the Company, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company and the Guarantor shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee, the Company and the Guarantor, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated delivered by the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
Article Nine
SECTION 1001. .
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on or any Additional Amounts payable in respect of the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities, any Coupons appertaining thereto and this Indenture. Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by with respect to any series of Securities; any interest due on and any Additional Amounts payable in respect of Bearer Securities other than Additional Amounts, if any, payable as provided in in respect of principal of, premium, if any, on such Security shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the several Coupons for such interest installments as are evidenced thereby as they severally mature.
Section 301
Section 1004
SECTION 1002. .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
The Company and the Guarantor will maintain in each Place of Payment for such series (but not Bearer Securities, except as otherwise provided below, unless such Place of Payment is located outside the United States) an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payments, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company or the Guarantor in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, the Company and the Guarantor will maintain, subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of Payment for that series located outside the United States, an office or agency where Securities of that series and related Coupons may be presented and surrendered for payment (including payment of any Additional Amounts payable on Securities of that series pursuant to ); , , that if the Securities of that series are listed on The Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, the Luxembourg Stock Exchange or any other stock exchange located outside the United States and such stock exchange shall so require, the Company and the Guarantor will maintain a Paying Agent for the Securities of that series in London, Luxembourg or any other required city located outside the United States, as the case may be, so long as the Securities of that series are listed on such exchange. The Company and the Guarantor will give prompt written notice to the Trustee and the Holders of such series of the
Section 1004
provided
however
 
location, and any change in the location, of any such office or agency. If at any time the Company and the Guarantor shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency in respect of any series of Securities or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations and surrenders of Securities of that series may be made and notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, except that Bearer Securities of that series and the related Coupons may be presented and surrendered for payment (including payment of any Additional Amounts payable on Bearer Securities of that series pursuant to ) at the place specified for that purpose pursuant to , and the Company and the Guarantor hereby appoints the same as its agent to receive such respective presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Section 1004
Section 301
Except as otherwise specified or contemplated by , no payment of principal, premium or interest on Bearer Securities shall be made at any office or agency of the Company in the United States or by check mailed to any address in the United States or by transfer to an account maintained with a bank located in the United States; , , that, if the Securities of a series are denominated and payable in Dollars, payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on any Bearer Security (including any Additional Amounts payable on Securities of such series pursuant to ) may be made at the office of the Company's or the Guarantor's Paying Agent in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, if (but only if) payment in Dollars of the full amount of such principal, premium, interest or Additional Amounts, as the case may be, at all offices or agencies outside the United States maintained for that purpose by the Company or the Guarantor in accordance with this Indenture is illegal or effectively precluded by exchange controls or other similar restrictions.
Section 301
provided
however
Section 1004
The Company and the Guarantor may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company or the Guarantor of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in accordance with the requirements set forth above for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company or the Guarantor will give prompt written notice to the Trustee and the Holders of such series of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
Unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, the Company hereby designates the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York as a Place of Payment for each series of Securities, initially appoints the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York as the Company's Office or Agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York for such purpose and initially appoints the Trustee as the Security Registrar for each series of Securities. The Company may subsequently appoint a different Office or Agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and, as provided in , may remove and replace from time to time the Security Registrar.
Section 305
SECTION 1003. .
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons
 
entitled thereto a sum in the currency or currencies, currency unit or units or composite currency or currencies in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to for the Securities of such series) sufficient to pay the principal, premium, if any, interest or Additional Amounts, as the case may be, so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Section 301
Whenever the Company and the Guarantor shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum (in the currency or currencies, currency unit or units or composite currency or currencies described in the preceding paragraph) sufficient to pay the principal, premium, if any, interest and additional Amounts so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company and the Guarantor will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
The Company and the Guarantor will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this , that such Paying Agent will:
Section 1003
(1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, interest on or Additional Amounts with respect to Securities of that series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
(2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company or the Guarantor (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of that series and, if so, the amount of such defaulted payment; and
(3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
The Company or the Guarantor may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order or Guarantor Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Except as otherwise provided hereby or pursuant hereto, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on or Additional Amounts with respect to any Security
 
of any series or any related Coupon and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium, if any, or interest or Additional Amount has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, (or if deposited by the Guarantor, paid to the Guarantor on Guarantor Request), or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security or any Coupon appertaining thereto shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company and the Guarantor for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, shall at the expense and at the direction of the Company or the Guarantor in the case of Bearer Securities cause to be published once, in an Authorized Newspaper in each Place of Payment, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be.
provided
however
SECTION 1004. .
Additional Amounts
If the Securities of a series provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, the Company and the Guarantor will pay to the Holder of any Security of such series or any Coupon appertaining thereto Additional Amounts as provided therein. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or in respect of, any Security of any series or payment of any related Coupon or the net proceeds received on the sale or exchange of any Security of any series, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided for in this to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
Section 1004
Section 1004
Except as otherwise provided herein or pursuant hereto, if the Securities of a series provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, at least 10 days prior to the first Interest Payment Date with respect to that series of Securities (or if the Securities of that series will not bear interest prior to Maturity, the first day on which a payment of principal and any premium is made), and at least 10 days prior to each date of payment of principal and any premium or interest if there has been any change with respect to the matters set forth in the below-mentioned officers' certificates, the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, will furnish the Trustee and the principal Paying Agent or Paying Agents, if other than the Trustee, with a Company Officers' Certificate or a Guarantor's Officers' Certificate, as the case may be, instructing the Trustee and such Paying Agent or Paying Agents whether such payment of principal of and any premium or interest on the Securities of that series shall be made to Holders of Securities of that series or any related Coupons who are United States Aliens without withholding for or on account of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge described in the Securities of that series. If any such withholding shall be required, then such Company Officers' Certificate or Guarantor's Officers' Certificate, as the case may be, shall specify by country the amount, if any, required to be withheld on such payments to such Holders of Securities or Coupons and the Company will pay to such Paying Agent the Additional Amounts required by the terms of such Securities. The Company and the Guarantor covenant to indemnify the Trustee and any Paying
 
Agent for, and to hold them harmless against any loss, liability or expense reasonably incurred without negligence or bad faith on their part arising out of or in connection with actions taken or omitted by any of them in reliance on any Company Officers' Certificate or Guarantor's Officers' Certificate furnished pursuant to this .
Section 1004
SECTION 1005. .
Limitation on Liens
The Company and the Guarantor will not, nor will they permit any Subsidiary of the Company or the Guarantor to issue or assume any Indebtedness secured by a Lien upon any Property (now owned or hereinafter acquired) of the Company or the Guarantor or any such Subsidiary without in any such case effectively providing concurrently with the issuance or assumption of any such Indebtedness that all of the Securities of any applicable series outstanding (together with, if the Company or the Guarantor shall so determine, any other Indebtedness of the Company or the Guarantor or any such Subsidiary ranking equally with the applicable series of Securities then existing or thereafter created) shall be secured equally and ratably with such Indebtedness. The restrictions set forth in the immediately preceding sentence will not, however, apply if the aggregate amount of Indebtedness issued or assumed by the Company, the Guarantor or such Subsidiaries and so secured by Liens, together with all other Indebtedness of the Company, the Guarantor or such Subsidiaries which (if originally issued or assumed at such time) would otherwise be subject to such restrictions, but not including Indebtedness permitted to be secured under clauses (i) through (xiii) of the immediately following paragraph, does not at the time exceed 15 % of the Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
The restrictions set forth above shall not apply to Indebtedness secured by:
(i) Liens existing on the date of the original issuance of the applicable series of Securities;
(ii) Liens on any Property of any company existing at the time such company becomes a Subsidiary of the Company or the Guarantor, which Liens are not created in contemplation of such company becoming a Subsidiary of the Company or the Guarantor;
(iii) Liens on any Property existing at the time such Property is acquired by the Company, the Guarantor or a Subsidiary of the Company or the Guarantor, or Liens to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price of such Property upon the acquisition of such Property by the Company, the Guarantor or a Subsidiary of the Company or the Guarantor or to secure any Indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 180 days after, the later of the date of acquisition of such Property and the date such Property is placed in service, for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof, or Liens to secure any Indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing the cost to the Company, the Guarantor or a Subsidiary of the Company or the Guarantor of improvements to such acquired Property or to secure any Indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price of the cost of construction of the Property subject to such Liens;
 
(iv) Liens securing any Indebtedness of the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company or the Guarantor owing to the Company, the Guarantor or to another Subsidiary of the Company or the Guarantor;
(v) Liens created in connection with a securitization or other asset-based financing;
(vi) Liens with respect to the payment of taxes, assessments or governmental charges in all cases which are not yet due or which are being contested in good faith;
(vii) statutory Liens of landlords and Liens of suppliers, mechanics, carriers, materialmen, warehousemen or workmen and other similar Liens imposed by law created in the ordinary course of business for amounts not yet due or which are being contested in good faith;
(viii) Liens incurred or deposits made in the ordinary course of business in connection with worker's compensation, unemployment insurance or other types of social security benefits or to secure the performance of bids, tenders, sales, contracts (other than for the repayment of borrowed money), surety, appeal and performance bonds;
(ix) Liens arising with respect to zoning restrictions, easements, licenses, reservations, covenants, rights-of-way, utility easements, building restrictions and other similar charges or encumbrances on the use of real property which do not interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries;
(x) Liens of attachment or judgment with respect to judgments, writs or warrants of attachment, or similar process against the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries;
(xi) Liens arising from leases, subleases or licenses granted to others which do not interfere in any material respect with the business of the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries;
(xii) any interest or title of the lessor in the Property subject to any operating lease (as determined in accordance with GAAP as in effect as of the date hereof) entered into by the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business;
(xiii) Liens, if any, in connection with any sale/leaseback transaction; and
(xiv) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) - (xiii); , , that such new Lien is limited to the Property which was subject to the prior Lien immediately before such
provided
however
 
extension, renewal or replacement, and , , that the principal amount of Indebtedness secured by the prior Lien immediately before such extension, renewal or replacement is not increased.
provided
further
SECTION 1006. .
Existence
Subject to , the Company and the Guarantor will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises (if any); , , that the Company or the Guarantor shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Company's Board of Directors or the applicable Guarantor's Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of its respective businesses and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to any Holder.
Article Eight
provided
however
SECTION 1007. .
Payment of Taxes and Other Claims
The Company and the Guarantor will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries or upon the income, profits or property of the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries, which, if unpaid, may by law become a Lien upon the property of the Company, the Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries (other than Liens permitted by ); , , that neither the Company nor the Guarantor shall be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment or charge (or any interest, penalties or fines relating thereto) whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate actions.
Section 1005
provided
however
SECTION 1008. .
Change in Nature of Business
Neither the Company nor the Guarantor will make any material change in the nature of their business as carried on at the initial date of the issuance of the Securities.
SECTION 1009. .
Accounting Changes
Neither the Company nor the Guarantor will make or permit, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make or permit, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by GAAP.
SECTION 1010. .
Waiver of Certain Covenants
The Company or the Guarantor may omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in to , inclusive, with respect to the Securities of any series if before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective,
Sections 1002
1009
 
the obligations of the Company or the Guarantor and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 1011. .
Calculation of Original Issue Discount
The Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount, if any (including daily rates and accrual periods), accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
SECTION 1101. .
Applicability of Article
Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise provided herein or therein pursuant hereto) in accordance with this .
Article Eleven
SECTION 1102. .
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by either a Company Board Resolution or a Company Officers' Certificate. In the case of any redemption at the election of the Company of Securities of any series, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities (i) prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, or (ii) pursuant to an election of the Company which is subject to a condition specified in the terms of such Securities, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with a Company Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction or condition.
SECTION 1103. .
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed
If less than all the Securities of any series with identical terms and conditions are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee shall deem appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Registered Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the list of Holders of Securities of any series to be redeemed is maintained by computer or other data processing equipment by a Security Registrar, a Paying Agent or another Person authorized to maintain such a list under this Indenture, the Trustee may, and if reasonably requested by the Company shall, utilize the computer or data processing equipment of such
 
Security Registrar, Paying Agent or other authorized Person for the purpose of determining by lot or by such other method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate the Securities to be redeemed. No partial redemption shall reduce the portion of the principal amount of a Registered Security of a series not redeemed to less than the minimum denominations for a Security of such series established herein pursuant hereto.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and the Security Registrar (if other than itself) in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
SECTION 1104. .
Notice of Redemption
Notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided in to the Holders of Securities to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date unless a shorter period is specified pursuant to with respect to the Securities to be redeemed.
Section 106
Section 301
Failure to give notice by mailing in the manner herein provided to the Holder of any Registered Securities designated for redemption as a whole or in part, or any defect in the notice to any such Holder, shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Securities or portion thereof.
Any notice that is mailed to the Holder of any Registered Securities in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not such Holder receives the notice.
All notices of redemption shall identify the Securities to be redeemed and state:
(1) the Redemption Date,
(2) the Redemption Price,
(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed,
(4) in case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice which relates to such Security shall state that on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of such Security, the Holder of such Security will receive, without charge, a new Security or Securities of authorized denominations for the principal amount thereof remaining unredeemed,
 
(5) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon and Additional Amounts, if any, will cease to accrue on and after said date,
(6) the place or places where such Securities, together in the case of Bearer Securities with all Coupons appertaining thereto, if any, maturing after the Redemption Date, are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price,
(7) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case,
(8) that, unless otherwise specified in such notice, Bearer Securities of any series, if any, surrendered for redemption must be accompanied by all Coupons maturing subsequent to the date fixed for redemption or the amount of any such missing Coupon or Coupons will be deducted from the Redemption Price, unless security or indemnity satisfactory to the Company, the Trustee and any Paying Agent is furnished,
(9) if Bearer Securities of any series are to be redeemed and no Registered Securities of such series are to be redeemed, and if such Bearer Securities may be exchanged for Registered Securities not subject to redemption on the Redemption Date pursuant to or otherwise, the last date, as determined by the Company, on which such exchanges may be made, and
Section 305
(10) the CUSIP number or the Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg reference numbers of the Securities to be so redeemed, if any.
A notice of redemption published as contemplated by need not identify particular Registered Securities to be redeemed.
Section 106
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company, in which event the Company shall provide the Trustee with the information required by Clauses (1) through (10) above five (5) days prior to the notice being sent (or such shorter time as may be agreed to by the Company and the Trustee).
If at the time notice of redemption shall be given the Company shall not have deposited with a Paying Agent and/or irrevocably directed the Trustee or a Paying Agent to apply, from money held by it available to be used for the redemption of Securities which are to be redeemed, an amount in cash sufficient to redeem all of the Securities called for redemption, including accrued interest and Additional Amounts to the Redemption Date, such notice shall state that it is subject to the receipt of the redemption monies by the Trustee or a Paying Agent on or before the Redemption Date and such notice shall be of no effect unless such monies are so received before such date.
SECTION 1105. .
Deposit of Redemption Price
At or before 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in ) an amount of money sufficient to pay
Section 1003
 
the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect thereto, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date. The Paying Agent shall provide notice to the Trustee of such deposit.
SECTION 1106. .
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid if required pursuant to the terms of the Securities being redeemed, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest and the Coupons for such interest appertaining to any Bearer Securities so to be redeemed, except to the extent provided below, shall be void. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, together with all Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest (and any Additional Amounts) to the Redemption Date; , , that installments of interest on Bearer Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in ) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by , only upon presentation and surrender of Coupons for such interest; and , , that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by , installments of interest on Registered Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of .
provided
however
Section 1002
Section 301
provided
further
Section 301
Section 307
If any Bearer Security surrendered for redemption shall not be accompanied by all appurtenant Coupons maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security may be paid after deducting from the Redemption Price an amount equal to the face amount of all such missing Coupons, or the surrender of such missing Coupon or Coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee or Authenticating Agent if there be furnished to them such Security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to the Trustee or Authenticating Agent or any paying Agent any such missing Coupon in respect of which a deduction shall have been made from the Redemption Price, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount so deducted; , , that interest represented by Coupons and any Additional Amounts payable with respect thereto shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United states (except as otherwise provided in ) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by , only upon presentation and surrender of those Coupons.
provided
however
Section 1002
Section 301
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal, and premium, if any, shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security or, if no rate is prescribed therefor in the Security, at the rate of interest, if any, borne by such Security.
 
SECTION 1107. .
Securities Redeemed in Part
Any Registered Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Security Registrar so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee or Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Registered Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered. If a Security in global form is so surrendered, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the U.S. Depositary or other Depository for such Security in global form as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto to the Trustee, without service charge, a new Security in global form in a denomination equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security in global form so surrendered.
However, if less than all the Securities of any series with differing issue dates, interest rates and stated maturities are to be redeemed, the Trustee will select the notes or portions thereof to be redeemed. In this case, the Trustee will select the particular notes or portions thereof for redemption from the outstanding notes not previously called by lot, or by any other method the Trustee considers appropriate.
pro rata
SECTION 1201. .
Applicability of Article
The provisions of this shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of such series.
Article Twelve
Section 301
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "". If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in . Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series and this Indenture.
mandatory sinking fund payment
optional sinking fund payment
Section 1202
SECTION 1202. .
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption), together in the case of any Bearer Securities of such series with all unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto, and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of
 
such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; , that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Security Registrar at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly. If, as a result of the delivery or credit of Securities of any series in lieu of cash payments pursuant to this , the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed in order to satisfy the remaining sinking fund payment shall be less than $100,000, the Trustee need not call Securities of such series for redemption, except upon Company Request, and such cash payment shall be held by the Trustee or a Paying Agent and applied to the next succeeding sinking fund payment; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent shall at the request of the Company from time to time pay over and deliver to the Company any cash payment so being held by the Trustee or such Paying Agent upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of Securities of that series purchased by the Company having an unpaid principal amount equal to the cash payment requested to be released to the Company.
provided
Section 1202
provided
however
SECTION 1203. .
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
Not less than 75 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for Securities of any series, the Company will deliver to the Trustee a Company Order specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for such Securities pursuant to the terms of such Securities, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to and the optional amount, if any, to be added in cash to the next ensuing mandatory sinking fund payment and will also deliver to the Security Registrar any Securities to be so credited and not theretofore delivered. If such Company Order shall specify an optional amount to be added in cash to the next ensuing mandatory sinking fund payment, the Company shall thereupon be obligated to pay the amount therein specified. Not less than 60 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in or permitted by and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in . Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in and .
Section 1202
Section 1103
Section 1104
Sections 1106
1107
SECTION 1301. .
Purposes for Which Meetings May Be Called
A meeting of Holders of Securities of any or all series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to this to make, give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series.
Article Thirteen
 
SECTION 1302. .
Call, Notice and Place of Meetings
(a) The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series for any purpose specified in , to be held at such time and at such place in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or if the Securities of such series are issued as Bearer Securities, in London or such other place outside of the United States as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given, in the manner provided in , not less than 20 nor more than 180 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
Section 1301
Section 106
(b) In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a Company Board Resolution, the Guarantor, pursuant to a Guarantor's Board Resolution or the Holders of at least 10% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of any series shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of the Holders of Securities of such series for any purpose specified in , by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have made the first publication of the notice of such meeting within 20 days after receipt of such request or shall not thereafter proceed to cause the meeting to be held as provided herein, then the Company or the Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified, as the case may be, may determine the time and the place in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or in London, as the case may be, for such meeting and may call such meeting for such purposes by giving notice thereof as provided in subsection (a) of this .
Section 1301
Section 1302
SECTION 1303. .
Persons Entitled to Vote at Meetings
To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, a Person shall be (1) a Holder of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series, or (2) a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy for a Holder or Holders of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series by such Holder or Holders. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel, any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel, any representative of the Guarantor and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
SECTION 1304. .
Quorum; Action
The Persons entitled to vote a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series; , , that if any action is to be taken at such meeting with respect to a consent or waiver which this Indenture expressly provides may be given by the Holders of not less than 66-2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series, the Persons entitled to vote 66-2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum within 30 minutes of the time appointed for any such meeting, the meeting shall, if convened at the request of Holders of Securities of such series, be dissolved. In any other case, the meeting may be adjourned for a
provided
however
 
period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such adjourned meeting, such adjourned meeting may be further adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such adjourned meeting. Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in , except that such notice need be given only once not less than five days prior to the date on which the meeting is scheduled to be reconvened. Notice of the reconvening of an adjourned meeting shall state expressly the percentage, as provided above, of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such series which shall constitute a quorum.
Section 1302(a)
Except as limited by the proviso to , any resolution presented to a meeting or adjourned meeting duly reconvened at which a quorum is present as aforesaid may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series; , , that, except as limited by the proviso to , any resolution with respect to any consent or waiver which this Indenture expressly provides may be given by the Holders of not less than 66-2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of a series may be adopted at a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly convened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid only by the affirmative vote of the Holders of 66-2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that series; and , , that, except as limited by the proviso to , any resolution with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage, which is less than a majority, in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series may be adopted at a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly reconvened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid by the affirmative vote of the Holders of such specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series.
Section 902
provided
however
Section 902
provided
further
Section 902
Any resolution passed or decision taken at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly held in accordance with this shall be binding on all the Holders of Securities of a series and the related Coupons, whether or not present or represented at the meeting.
Section 1304
SECTION 1305. .
Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings
(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Holders of Securities of a series in regard to proof of the holding of Securities of such series and of the appointment of proxies and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem appropriate. Except as otherwise permitted or required by any such regulations, the holding of Securities shall be proved in the manner specified in and the appointment of any proxy shall be proved in the manner specified in or by having the signature of the person executing the proxy witnessed or guaranteed by any trust company, bank or banker authorized by to certify to the holding of
Section 104
Section 104
Section 104
 
Bearer Securities. Such regulations may provide that written instruments appointing proxies, regular on their face, may be presumed valid and genuine without the proof specified in or other proof.
Section 104
(b) The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Holders of Securities as provided in , in which case the Company, the Guarantor or the Holders of Securities of the series calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Persons entitled to vote a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting.
Section 1302(b)
(c) At any meeting each Holder of a Security of such series and each proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by him; , , that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote, except as a Holder of a Security of such series or as a proxy.
provided
however
(d) Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly called pursuant to at which a quorum is present may be adjourned from time to time by Persons entitled to vote a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting; and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
Section 1302
SECTION 1306. .
Counting Votes and Recording Action of Meetings
The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts and serial numbers of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record, at least in duplicate of the proceedings of each meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to such record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that such a notice was given as provided in and, if applicable, . Each copy shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one such copy shall be delivered to the Company and the Guarantor, and another to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting. Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
Section 1302
Section 1304
 
SECTION 1401. .
Guarantee
Subject to the provisions of this , the Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees on a senior basis to each Holder of a Security authenticated and delivered hereunder and to the Trustee the due and punctual payment of the principal of, any premium and interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to such Security and the due and punctual payment of the sinking fund payments (if any) provided for pursuant to the terms of such Security, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption, repayment or otherwise, and the due and punctual payment of interest on overdue principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Securities, to the extent lawful, in accordance with the terms of such Security and of this Indenture, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Company, to the Holders or the Trustee all in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture (the foregoing, collectively, the ""). In case of the failure of the Company punctually to pay any such principal, premium, interest, Additional Amounts, sinking fund payment or other amounts, the Guarantor hereby agrees to cause any such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity, upon acceleration, redemption, repayment or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company.
Article Fourteen
Guaranteed Obligations
The Guarantor hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be as principal and not merely as surety, and shall be absolute, irrevocable and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by, any invalidity, irregularity or unenforceability of any Security or this Indenture, any failure to enforce the provisions of any Security or this Indenture, or any waiver, modification, consent or indulgence granted with respect thereto by the Holder of such Security or the Trustee, the recovery of any judgment against the Company or any action to enforce the same, or any other circumstances which may otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor. The Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of merger, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to any such Security or the Indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that no Guarantee will be discharged except by payment in full of the principal of, any premium and interest on, and any Additional Amounts and sinking fund payments required with respect to, the Securities and the complete performance of all other obligations contained in the Securities and this Indenture.
The maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in for the purposes of this . In the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in , such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantor for the purpose of this . In addition, without limiting the foregoing provisions, upon the effectiveness of an acceleration under , the Trustee shall promptly make a demand for payment on the Securities under the Guarantee provided for in this .
Article Five
Article Fourteen
Article Five
Article Fourteen
Article Five
Article Fourteen
 
If the Trustee or the Holder of any Security is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company or the Guarantor, or any custodian, receiver, liquidator, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official acting in relation to the Company or the Guarantor, any amount paid to the Trustee or such Holder in respect of a Security, the Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. The Guarantor further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that, as between it, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in for the purposes of the Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition issued or imposed under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby.
Article Five
Until this Indenture is discharged and all of the Securities are discharged and paid in full, the Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives and agrees not to exercise any claim or other rights which it may now or hereafter acquire against the Company that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of the Company's obligations under the Securities or this Indenture and the Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee and this Indenture, in any such instance including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution, indemnification, and any right to participate in any claim or remedy against the Company, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity, or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from the Company, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim or other rights. If any amount shall be paid to the Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence and any amounts owing to the Trustee or the Holders of Securities under the Securities, this Indenture, or any other document or instrument delivered under or in connection with such agreements or instruments, shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall be deemed to have been paid to the Guarantor for the benefit of, and held in trust for the benefit of, the Holders of the Securities, and shall forthwith be paid to the Trustee for the benefit of such Holders to be credited and applied to the Securities, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture. The Guarantor acknowledges that it will receive direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by this Indenture and that the waiver set forth in this is knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
Section 1401
Anything to the contrary in this Indenture notwithstanding, the Guarantee by the Guarantor shall be, and hereby is, limited to the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by the applicable Guarantor without rendering the Guarantee, as it relates to the Guarantor, voidable under any applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
The Guarantee set forth in this shall not be valid and obligatory for any purpose with respect to a Security until the certificate of authentication of such Security shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent.
Section 1401
The Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection.
 
SECTION 1402. .
Operation of Guarantee
By execution of this Agreement or a supplemental indenture and upon delivery of a Guarantor's Order to the Trustee by the Guarantor prior to the issuance of any Security of a series, the Guarantee of the Guarantor in respect of such Securities shall be set forth in and shall be effective for all purposes upon authentication of such Security by or on behalf of the Trustee and shall not require the Guarantor's endorsement on the Securities.
Section 1401
SECTION 1403. .
Release of Guarantee
Concurrently with the payment in full of all of the Guaranteed Obligations, the Guarantor shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this . Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of a Company Officers' Certificate and, if requested by the Trustee, an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of such obligations was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Securities, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of the Guarantor from its obligations. If any of the Guaranteed Obligations are revived and reinstated after the termination of this Guarantee, then all of the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the Guaranteed Obligations are paid in full, and the Guarantor shall enter into an amendment to this Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
Article Fourteen
SECTION 1501. .
Applicability of Article
Whenever this Indenture provides for (i) any action by, or the determination of any of the rights of, Holders of Securities of any series in which not all of such Securities are denominated in the same currency or (ii) any distribution to Holders of Securities of any series in which not all of such Securities are denominated in the same currency, in the absence of any provision to the contrary in or pursuant to this Indenture or the Securities of such series, any amount in respect of any Security denominated in a currency other than Dollars shall be treated for any such action, determination or distribution as that amount of Dollars that could be obtained for such amount on such reasonable basis of exchange and as of the record date with respect to Registered Securities of such series (if any) for such action, determination or distribution (or, if there shall be no applicable record date, such other date reasonably proximate to the date of such distribution) as the Company may specify in a written notice to the Trustee or, in the absence of such written notice, as the Trustee may determine.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
Exhibit A-1
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE) OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (""), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "") OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION, AND, ACCORDINGLY, NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION. BY ITS
SECURITIES ACT
 
ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN
(1) REPRESENTS THAT
(A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), OR
(B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATIONS UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, AND
(2) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE THEREOF WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY) ONLY
(A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF,
(B) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT,
(C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHICH NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A,
(D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN OFFSHORE TRANSACTIONS WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT,
(E) TO AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF SUBPARAGRAPH (a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) OF RULE 501 OF REGULATION D UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF SUCH AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR, FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO, OR FOR OFFER OR SALE IN CONNECTION WITH, ANY DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT OR
(F) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT,
SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (i) PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (E) OR (F) TO
 
REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND (ii) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY BE COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER FROM IT OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH ABOVE.
 
 
 
 
 
Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the Principal Amount specified above, as revised by the Schedule of Increases and Decreases in Global Security attached hereto, on the Maturity Date specified above and to pay to the registered holder of this Note (the "") interest on said Principal Amount at a rate per annum specified above and upon the terms provided below under either the heading "Provisions Applicable to Fixed Rate Notes Only" or "Provisions Applicable to Floating Rate Notes Only."
Company
Holder
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of notes of the Company (herein referred to as the ""), all issued or to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of March 4, 2011 (as may be supplemented from time to time, the ""), among the Company, Harley-Davidson Credit Corp. (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company, the Guarantor and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The Notes of this series are limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture) to the aggregate principal amount established from time to time by the Company Board of Directors. The Notes of this series may be issued at various times with different maturity dates and different principal repayment provisions, may bear interest at different rates and may otherwise vary, all as provided in the Indenture. The Notes of this series may be subject to redemption upon notice and in accordance with the provisions of this Note and the Indenture. The Company and the Guarantor may defease the Notes of this series in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
Notes
Indenture
Guarantor
Trustee
To secure the due and punctual payment of principal, any premium, any interest and Additional Amounts (as defined in the Indenture) on this Note by the Company under the Indenture, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Maturity Date, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, the Guarantor has unconditionally guaranteed this Note pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee endorsed hereon and in Section 1401 of the Indenture (the "").
Guarantee
 
As used herein, the term "" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York; , , that if a Specified Currency is specified above, the day is also not a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in the Principal Financial Center (as defined below) of the country issuing such Specified Currency or, if such Specified Currency is the Euro, the day is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open; provided further that if LIBOR is indicated above to be an applicable Interest Rate Basis, the day is also a London Banking Day (as defined below).
Business Day
provided
however
"" means, unless otherwise provided in this Note, the capital city of the country issuing the Specified Currency; except that with respect to United States dollars, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, South African rand and Swiss francs, the "Principal Financial Center" will be The City of New York, Sydney and (solely in the case of the Specified Currency) Melbourne, Toronto, Johannesburg and Zurich, respectively.
Principal Financial Center
"" means a day which commercial banks are open for business in London.
London Banking Day
Provisions Applicable To Fixed Rate Notes Only:
If the "Fixed Rate" line above is checked, unless otherwise specified above, the Company will pay interest semiannually on and of each year (each such date fixed for the payment of interest, an "") commencing on and on the Maturity Date or upon earlier redemption or repayment to the person to whom principal is payable. Interest shall accrue from the Original Issue Date, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for on this Note to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date, or earlier date of redemption or repayment, as the case may be. Interest on Fixed Rate Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
    
    
Interest Payment Date
    
If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment) of this Fixed Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment will be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date such payment was due, and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment), as the case may be.
Provisions Applicable To Floating Rate Notes Only:
If the "Floating Rate" line above is checked, the Company will pay interest on the Interest Payment Dates shown specified above at the Initial Interest Rate specified above until the first Interest Reset Date specified above following the Original Issue Date specified above and thereafter at a rate determined in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth under the headings "Determination of CD Rate," "Determination of CMT Rate," "Determination of Commercial Paper Rate," "Determination of Federal Funds Rate," "Determination of LIBOR," "Determination of Prime Rate" or "Determination of Treasury Rate," depending on whether the
 
Interest Rate Basis is the CD Rate, the CMT Rate, the Commercial Paper Rate, the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, the Prime Rate, the Treasury Rate or other Interest Rate Basis.
An interest payment shall be the amount of interest accrued from and including the Original Issue Date, or from and including the last Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid, to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date, or date of earlier redemption or repayment, as the case may be (an ""). Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the interest rate hereon shall not be greater than the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, or less than the Minimum Interest Rate, if any, specified above.
Interest Period
If any Interest Payment Date for any Floating Rate Note, other than an Interest Payment Date at maturity, would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be the following day that is a Business Day, and interest will continue to accrue to the following Business Day, except that if LIBOR is the applicable Interest Rate Basis, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date will be the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day. If the Maturity Date (or date of earlier redemption or repayment) of any Floating Rate Note would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of interest and principal (and premium, if any) may be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment).
Commencing with the first Interest Reset Date specified above following the Original Issue Date, the rate at which interest on this Note is payable shall be adjusted daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually as specified above under "Interest Reset Dates."
The interest rate borne by this Note will be determined as follows:
(i) Unless the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as a "Floating Rate/Fixed Rate Note" or an "Inverse Floating Rate Note" or in the event either "Other Provisions" or an Addendum hereto applies, in each case, relating to a different interest rate formula, this Note shall be designated as a "Regular Floating Rate Note" and, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, shall bear interest at the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases (a) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or (b) multiplied by the applicable Spread Multiplier, if any; in each case as specified above. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset as of each Interest Reset Date specified above; , that the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial Interest Rate.
provided, however
(ii) If the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as a "Floating Rate/Fixed Rate Note" then, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, this Note shall bear interest at the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases (a) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or (b) multiplied by the Spread Multiplier, if any, in each case as specified above. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset as of each Interest Reset Date; , , that (y) the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial
provided
however
 
Interest Rate and (z) the interest rate in effect for the period commencing on, and including, the Fixed Rate Commencement Date specified above to the Maturity Date (or date of earlier redemption or repayment) shall be the Fixed Interest Rate specified above or, if no Fixed Interest Rate is so specified, the interest rate in effect on the day immediately preceding the Fixed Rate Commencement Date.
(iii) If the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as an "Inverse Floating Rate Note" then, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, this Note shall bear interest at (a) the Fixed Interest Rate specified above minus (b) the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases:
(x) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or
(y) multiplied by the applicable Spread Multiplier, if any, in each case as specified above;
, , that, unless otherwise specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, the interest rate hereon shall not be less than zero. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset on each Interest Reset Date; , , that the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial Interest Rate set forth above.
provided
however
provided
however
The "" is the number of basis points (one basis point equals one-hundredth of a percentage point) specified above to be added to or subtracted from the Interest Rate Basis for a Floating Rate Note, and the "" is the percentage specified above by which the Interest Rate Basis for such Floating Rate Note will be multiplied. Both a Spread and/or a Spread Multiplier may be applicable to the Interest Rate Basis for a particular Floating Rate Note, as set forth above.
Spread
Spread Multiplier
Each such adjusted Interest Rate Basis shall be applicable on and after the Interest Reset Date to which it relates but not including the next succeeding Interest Reset Date. If any Interest Reset Date is a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that if the rate of interest on this Note shall be determined by reference to LIBOR and such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. In addition, if the Treasury Rate is the applicable Interest Rate Basis and the Interest Determination Date would otherwise fall on an Interest Reset Date, then the Interest Reset Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day. Subject to applicable provisions of law (including usury laws) and except as specified in this Note, on each Interest Reset Date, the rate of interest on this Note shall be the rate determined in accordance with the provisions of the applicable heading below.
With respect to a Floating Rate Note, accrued interest shall be calculated by multiplying the principal amount of thereof by an accrued interest factor. Such accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day in the Interest Period or from the last date from which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor for each such day is computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to such day by 360, in the cases of CD Rate
 
Notes, Commercial Paper Rate Notes, Federal Funds Rate Notes, LIBOR Notes and Prime Rate Notes or by the number of days in the year, in the cases of CMT Rate Notes and Treasury Rate Notes. The interest rate applicable to any day that is an Interest Reset Date will be the interest rate effective on such Interest Reset Date. The interest rate applicable to any other day will be the interest rate for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Date (or, if none, the Initial Interest Rate, as specified above).
The "," where applicable, pertaining to an Interest Determination Date will be the earlier of (i) the tenth calendar day after such Interest Determination Date or, if any such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day or (ii) the Business Day preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment), as the case may be.
Calculation Date
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. shall be the calculation agent unless another calculation agent is specified above (the ""). The interest rate applicable to each interest period will be determined by the Calculation Agent on or prior to the applicable Calculation Date. At the request of the Holder, the Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate which will become effective on the next Interest Reset Date.
Calculation Agent
All percentages resulting from any calculation of the rate of interest on a Floating Rate Note will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percent (.0000001), with five one-millionths of a percentage point rounded upward, and all dollar amounts used in or resulting from such calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest cent (with one-half cent being rounded upward).
If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the CD Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity specified above as published in H.15(519) (as defined below) on such CD Interest Determination Date under the heading "CDs (secondary market)." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the CD Rate shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit of the Index Maturity specified above as published in H.15 Daily Update (as defined below), or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "CDs (secondary market)." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the CD Rate shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent on the Notes as the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date, of three leading non-bank dealers in negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit in The City of New York selected by the Calculation Agent for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit of major United States money market banks with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above in an amount that is representative for a single transaction in that
Determination of CD Rate.
CD Rate
CD Interest Determination Date
 
market at that time. If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent as provided in the preceding sentence are not quoting as mentioned in such sentence, the CD Rate shall be the CD Rate in effect on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date.
"" means the weekly statistical release designated as H.15(519), or any successor publication, published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
H.15(519)
"" means the daily update of H.15(519), available through the world-wide-web site of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System at http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/update, or any successor site or publication.
H.15 Daily Update
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the CMT Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be, if "CMT Reuters Page FRBCMT" is specified above, the percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as the yield is displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service), on page FRBCMT (or any other page as may replace the specified page on that service under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities")(""). If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear on Reuters Page FRBCMT, the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, and for the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities." In the event the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear in H.15(519), then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date for the period of the Index Maturity specified above, as may then be published by either the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or the United States Department of the Treasury that the Calculation Agent determines to be comparable to the rate which would otherwise have been published in H.15(519). In the event the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not published, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three leading primary United States government securities dealers in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates (each a ""), selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest), and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the Index Maturity specified above, a remaining term to maturity no more than one year shorter than the Index Maturity specified above and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two of the prices referred to in the above sentence are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations shall be eliminated; , , that if fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the
Determination of CMT Rate
CMT Rate
CMT Interest Determination Date
Reuters Page FRBCMT
Reference Dealer
provided
however
 
applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation or, in the event of equality, one of the highest and the lowest quotation or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest, for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above, and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. However, if fewer than five but more than two prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations will be eliminated. If fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be the CMT Rate in effect on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date. If the CMT Reuters Page FEDCMT is specified above, the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified above, and will be the average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as the yield is displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service) on page FEDCMT (or any other page as may replace that specified page on that service)(""), for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which the related CMT Interest Determination Date falls. If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear on Reuters Page FEDCMT, then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified above, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, and for the week or month, as applicable, preceding the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) opposite the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear in H.15(519), then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be the one-week or one-month, as specified above, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as otherwise announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which the related CMT Interest Determination Date falls. If the Federal Reserve Bank of New York does not publish the rate referred to above, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest), and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity no more than one year shorter than the Index Maturity specified above, and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two of the prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest
Reuters Page FEDCMT
 
Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations shall be eliminated. If fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation or (in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above and will be in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations will be eliminated, or if fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate will be the CMT Rate in effect on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date. If two United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity as specified above have remaining terms to maturity equally close to the Index Maturity specified above, the quotes for the United States Treasury security with the shorter original remaining term to maturity will be used.
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the Commercial Paper Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Commercial Paper Rate" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the Money Market Yield (as defined below) on such date of the rate for commercial paper having the Index Maturity as indicated above, as such rate shall be published in H.15(519) under the caption "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial." In the event that such rate is not published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, then the Commercial Paper Rate shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Money Market Yield of the Commercial Paper Rate on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity specified above, published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial." If by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, such rate is not yet published as provided in the preceding sentence, then the Commercial Paper Rate on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date of three leading dealers of United States dollar commercial paper in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent for commercial paper having the Index Maturity specified above, placed for industrial issuers whose bond rating is "Aa," or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization; , , that if the dealers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting offered rates as mentioned in this
Determination of Commercial Paper Rate
Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date
provided
however
 
sentence, the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Commercial Paper Rate in effect on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date.
"" shall be a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula and expressed as a percentage:
Money Market Yield
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal; and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to the Federal Funds Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Federal Funds Rate" with respect to each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the first Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate on that date for United States dollar Federal Funds as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Federal Funds (Effective)," as displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service) on page FEDFUND01 (or any other page as may replace the applicable page on that service)("") or, if such rate does not appear on Reuters Page FEDFUND01, or is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the rate on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date for United States dollar Federal Funds will be the rate on such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "Federal Funds (Effective)." If such rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate will be calculated by the Calculation Agent and will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight United States dollar Federal Funds arranged by three leading brokers of United States dollar Federal Funds transactions in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent before 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date; , , that if the brokers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Federal Funds Rate will be the Federal Funds Rate in effect on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date.
Determination of Federal Funds Rate
Federal Funds Interest Determination Date
Reuters Page FEDFUND 01
provided
however
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, LIBOR, unless otherwise specified above, "LIBOR" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second London Banking Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate (express as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars having a three-month maturity that appears on Reuters LIBOR01 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date, or if Reuters LIBOR01 is not available on such date, the Calculation Agent will obtain such rate from Bloomberg's page "BBAM." If such rate does not appear on Reuters LIBOR01 or Bloomberg's page "BBAM" on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, then the Calculation Agent will
Determination of LIBOR
LIBOR Interest Determination Date
 
request the principal London office of each of four major banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide a quotation of the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) offered by it to prime banks in the London interbank market for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars in a principal amount of at least $1,000,000 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date. If at least two such offered quotations are so provided, LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two such quotations are so provided, the Calculation Agent will request each of three major banks in New York City, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide a quotation of the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum), offered by it for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks having a three-month maturity in a principal amount of at least $1,000,000 at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date. If at least two such rates are so provided, LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the arithmetic mean of such rates. If fewer than two such rates are so provided, then LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the rate in effect on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date.
"" means the Capital Markets Report Screen LIBOR01 of Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service or page), for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates of major banks for U.S. dollars.
Reuters LIBOR01
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the Prime Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Prime Rate" with respect to each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the first Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate set forth on such date as published in H.15(519) under the caption "Bank Prime Loan," or if not so published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Prime Interest Determination Date, then the Prime Rate. will be as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate under the caption "Bank Prime Loan," or if not so published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Prime Interest Determination Date, then the Prime Rate will be determined by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank that appears on the Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page (as defined below) as the particular bank's prime rate or base lending rate as of 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date. If fewer than four such rates are so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date as shown on the Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page for the Prime Interest Determination Date, the Prime Rate will be determined by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base lending rates quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by a 360-day year as of the close of business on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date by three major banks, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, in The City of New York selected by the Calculation Agent. However, if the banks selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in the preceding sentence, the Prime Rate will be the Prime Rate in effect on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date.
Determination of Prime Rate
Prime Interest Determination Date
 
"" means the display on the Reuter Money 3000 Service or any successor service on the "US PRIME 1 Page" or other page as may replace US PRIME 1 Page on that service for the purpose of displaying prime rates or base lending rates of major United States banks).
Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to the Treasury Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Treasury Rate" for each Interest Reset Date will be the rate from the auction held on the applicable Interest Determination Date (the "") of direct obligations of the United States ("") having the Index Maturity, as specified above, as published under the caption "Investment Rate" on the display on Reuters, Inc. or any successor service on page USAUCTION 10 or any other page as may replace page USAUCTION 10 on that service ("") or page USAUCTION 11 on that service (""), or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date (as defined below), the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate for the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Auction High," or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate of the applicable Treasury Bills announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or, if the rate is not announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or if the Auction is not held, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date of Treasury Bills having the Index Maturity specified above, published in H.15(519) under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market," or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date, the rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market." In the event that the results of the auction of Treasury Bills having the applicable Index Maturity specified above are not published or reported, as provided above, by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date or if no such auction is held on such Treasury Rate Determination Date, then the Treasury Rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and shall be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date, of three primary United States government securities dealers, which may include the agent or its affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent, for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above; , , that if the dealers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Treasury Rate will be the Treasury Rate in effect on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date.
Determination of Treasury Rate
Auction
Treasury Bills
Reuters Page USAUCTION 10
Reuters Page USAUCTION 11
provided
however
The "" for any Interest Reset Date will be the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls on which Treasury Bills would normally be auctioned. Treasury Bills are normally sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is normally held on the following Tuesday, except
Treasury Rate Determination Date
 
such auction may be held on the preceding Friday. If, as the result of a legal holiday, an auction is so held on the preceding Friday, such Friday will be the Treasury Rate Determination Date pertaining to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next succeeding week.
"" means a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula and expressed as a percentage:
Bond Equivalent Yield
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal; "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
Provisions Applicable To Both Fixed Rate Notes And Floating Rate Notes:
The interest so payable on any Interest Payment Date will, subject to certain exceptions in the Indenture hereinafter referred to, be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date (as defined below) immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date or, if the Interest Payment Date is the Maturity Date or the date of earlier redemption or repayment, to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Maturity Date or such earlier date of redemption or repayment; , , that if the Original Issue Date is between a Regular Record Date and an Interest Payment Date or on an Interest Payment Date, interest for the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the Interest Payment Date relating to such Regular Record Date shall be paid on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date to the person in whose name this Note is registered on the close of business on the Regular Record Date preceding such Interest Payment Date. If this Note bears interest at a Fixed Rate, as specified above, unless otherwise specified above, the "" with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be the first day of and , preceding such Interest Payment Date, whether or not such date shall be a Business Day. If this Note bears interest at a Floating Rate, as specified above, the "Regular Record Date" with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be the fifteenth calendar day next preceding such Interest Payment Date, whether or not such date shall be a Business Day.
provided
however
Regular Record Date
            
            
Payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note due on the Maturity Date or any earlier redemption or repayment date will be made in immediately available funds upon presentation and surrender of this Note; , , that if a Specified Currency is specified above and such payment is to be made in such Specified Currency in accordance with the provisions set forth below, such payment will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account with a bank designated by the Holder hereof at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date or such earlier redemption or repayment date, as the case may be, provided that such bank has appropriate facilities therefor and that this Note is presented and surrendered at the Place of Payment specified above in time for the Trustee to make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payment of interest due on any Interest Payment Date, other than the Maturity Date or any earlier redemption or repayment date, will be made at the Place of Payment specified above.
provided
however
 
Whenever in this Note or in the Indenture there is a reference, in any context, to the payment of the principal of, or interest, if any, on, or in respect of, the Notes, such payment shall be deemed to include the payment of Additional Amounts to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect of such payment pursuant to the provisions hereof or thereof and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provision hereof or thereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
The Company is obligated to make payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note in United States dollars or, if a Specified Currency is indicated above, in such Specified Currency (or, if such Specified Currency is not at the time of such payment legal tender for the payment of public and private debts of the country issuing such currency or, in the case of the Euro, in the member states of the European Union that have adopted the single currency in accordance with the Treaty Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union, such other currency which is then such legal tender in such country or in the adopting member states of the European Union, as the case may be). If a Specified Currency is specified above, except as otherwise provided below, any such amounts so payable by the Company will be converted by a New York clearing house bank designated by the Company (the "") into United States dollars for payment to the Holder of this Note.
Exchange Rate Agent
If a Specified Currency is specified above, the Holder of this Note may elect to receive any amount payable hereunder in such Specified Currency. If the Holder of this Note shall not have duly made an election to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency, any United States dollar amount to be received by the Holder of this Note will be based on the highest bid quotation in The City of New York received by the Exchange Rate Agent at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the applicable payment date from three recognized foreign exchange dealers (one of whom may be the Exchange Rate Agent) selected by the Exchange Rate Agent and approved by the Company for the purchase by the quoting dealer of the Specified Currency for United States dollars for settlement on such payment date in the aggregate amount of the Specified Currency payable to all Holders of Notes scheduled to receive United States dollar payments and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract. All currency exchange costs will be borne by the Holder of this Note by deductions from such payments. If three such bid quotations are not available, payments on this Note will be made in the Specified Currency.
If a Specified Currency is specified above, the Holder of this Note may elect to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency by submitting a written request for such payment to the Trustee at the Place of Payment on or prior to the applicable Record Date or at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption or repayment date), as the case may be. Such written request may be mailed or hand delivered or sent by facsimile transmission. The Holder of this Note may elect to receive all or a specified portion of all future payments in the Specified Currency in respect of such principal, premium, if any, and/or interest and need not file a separate election for each payment. Such election will remain in effect until revoked by written notice to the Trustee, but written notice of any such revocation must be received by the Trustee
 
on or prior to the applicable Record Date or at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption or repayment date), as the case may be.
If a Specified Currency is specified above and the Holder of this Note shall have duly made an election to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency, but such Specified Currency is not available for such payment due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to the Holder of this Note by making such payment in United States dollars on the basis of the Market Exchange Rate (as defined below) determined by the Exchange Rate Agent on the second Business Day prior to such payment date or, if such Market Exchange Rate is not then available, on the basis of the most recently available Market Exchange Rate on or before the date on which such payment is due. The "" for the Specified Currency means the noon dollar buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers of the Specified Currency as certified for customs purposes (or, if not so certified, as otherwise determined) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Any payment made in United States dollars under such circumstances shall not constitute an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture).
Market Exchange Rate
All determinations referred to above made by the Exchange Rate Agent shall be at its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this Note.
In case an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount (or, if the Note is an Original Issue Discount Note, such lesser portion of the principal amount as may be applicable) of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable, and, with respect to certain Events of Default, shall automatically become due and payable, in each case in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. If this Note is an Original Issue Discount Note, in the event of an acceleration of the Maturity Date hereof, the amount payable to the Holder of this Note upon such acceleration will be determined by this Note but will be an amount less than the amount payable at the Maturity Date of this Note.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Guarantor and the rights of the Holders of the Securities (as defined in the Indenture) of each series to be affected by such modification under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Guarantor with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities (as defined in the Indenture) of each series to be affected by such modification. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company and the Guarantor with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.
This Note is issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof or other Authorized Denomination specified above.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered in the Security Register of this series upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the Place of Payment specified above, duly endorsed by or accompanied by, a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee, duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon a new Note or Notes of this series of Authorized Denomination and for the same aggregate principal amount, with the Guarantee endorsed thereon, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Trustee, and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered in the Security Register as the owner of this Note for all purposes (other than for the determination of any Additional Amounts payable) and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
If so specified above, this Note will be redeemable at the Company's option on the date or dates specified prior to the Maturity Date at a price or prices, each as specified above, together with accrued interest to the date of redemption. This Note will not be subject to any sinking fund. If so redeemable, the Company may redeem this Note either in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30, nor more than 60, days' notice before the date of redemption. If less than all of the Notes with like tenor and terms are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
This Notes will be subject to redemption at the option of the Company, in whole or in part at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of this Note to be redeemed, and (ii) as determined by the Quotation Agent (as defined below), the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on this Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus basis points, and accrued but unpaid interest thereon.
        
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
"" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the trustee obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Quotation Agent
"" means (i) each of and (and their respective successors) and three other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are Primary Treasury Dealers specified from time to time by the Company; , that if the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
            
            
provided, however
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
Notice of any redemption will be-mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to the Holder hereof at its address as such address shall appear in the Security Register of the Company. Unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the principal amount of this Note called for redemption.
If an HDI Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem this Note as described above, the Company will be required to make an offer (the "") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "").
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Within 30 days following any HDI Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any HDI Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes, or would constitute upon consummation thereof, the HDI Change of Control, a notice will be mailed to Holders of the Notes describing the transaction that constitutes, or would constitute upon consummation thereof, the HDI Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the HDI Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the HDI Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Payment Date
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with a Company Officers' Certificate (as defined in the Indenture) stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
The Company will not be required to comply with the obligations relating to repurchasing the Notes if a third party instead satisfies them.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations applicable to the repurchase of the Notes. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
Exchange Act
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following terms will be applicable:
"" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of an HDI Change of Control and (2) public notice of the intention of Harley-Davidson, Inc. ("") to effect an HDI Change of Control (which 60-day period will be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular HDI Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of HDI Change of Control Triggering Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable HDI Change of Control (whether or not the applicable HDI Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
HDI
provided
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of HDI who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of HDI in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
Continuing Director
"" means Fitch Inc.
Fitch
 
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than HDI or one of its subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of HDI or other Voting Stock into which the Voting Stock of HDI is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of HDI and the assets of the subsidiaries of HDI, taken as a whole, to one or more "persons" (as that term is defined in the Indenture), other than HDI or one of its subsidiaries; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of HDI are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to be an HDI Change of Control if (1) HDI becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Voting Stock of HDI immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
HDI Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both an HDI Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
HDI Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's, BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch, and (2) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
The Company can "reopen" a previously issued tranche of Notes and issue additional Notes of such tranche or establish additional terms of such tranche or issue notes with the same terms as previously issued Notes.
The Company may at any time purchase this Note at any price in the open market or otherwise. Notes so purchased by the Company may be held or resold or, at the discretion of the Company, may be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligations of the Company and the Guarantor, which are absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Note, at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
By acceptance of this Note, the Holder hereof agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Indenture. Terms used herein which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Indenture. This Note shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture.
 
, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed, manually or by facsimile by an authorized signatory.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
as Trustee
 
 
For value received, undersigned hereby fully, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee contained in Article Fourteen of the Indenture, to the Holder of this Note and to the Trustee, on behalf of the Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and any premium, interest and any Additional Amounts on, this Note, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of this Note and the Indenture. This Guarantee will not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Trustee duly executes the certificate of authentication on the Note upon which this Guarantee is endorsed.
Dated:
 
 
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto:
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
(Please insert social security or other identifying number of assignee)
 
 
 
 
the within Note, and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the within Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                                                                 
 
SIGNATURE(S) GUARANTEED:
THE SIGNATURE(S) SHOULD BE GUARANTEED BY AN ELIGIBLE GUARANTOR INSTITUTION (BANKS, STOCKBROKERS, SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS AND CREDIT UNIONS WITH MEMBERSHIP IN AN APPROVED SIGNATURE GUARANTEE MEDALLION PROGRAM) PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17Ad-15.
 
 
 
Exhibit A-2
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE) OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (""), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "") OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION, AND, ACCORDINGLY, NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN
SECURITIES ACT
 
(1) REPRESENTS THAT
(A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), OR
(B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, AND
(2) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "") WHICH IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE THEREOF WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY) ONLY
RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE
(A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF,
(B) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT,
(C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHICH NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A,
(D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN OFFSHORE TRANSACTIONS WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT,
(E) TO AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF SUBPARAGRAPH (a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) OF RULE 501 OF REGULATION D UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF SUCH AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR, FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO, OR FOR OFFER OR SALE IN CONNECTION WITH, ANY DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT, OR
(F) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT,
SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (i) PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (E) OR (F) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND (ii) IN EACH OF THE
 
FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY BE COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER FROM IT OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH ABOVE.
THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR DEFINITIVE NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN). NEITHER THE HOLDER NOR THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE PAYMENT OF INTEREST HEREON.
PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF THE 40-DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD (AS DEFINED IN REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES (AS DEFINED IN REGULATION S) OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, A U.S. PERSON (AS DEFINED IN REGULATION S), UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
 
 
 
 
Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the Principal Amount specified above, as revised by the Schedule of Increases and Decreases in Global Security attached hereto, on the Maturity Date specified above and to pay to the registered holder of this Note (the "") interest on said Principal Amount at a rate per annum specified above and upon the terms provided below under either the heading "Provisions Applicable to Fixed Rate Notes Only" or "Provisions Applicable to Floating Rate Notes Only."
Company
Holder
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of notes of the Company (herein referred to as the ""), all issued or to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of March 4, 2011 (as may be supplemented from time to time, the ""), among the Company, Harley-Davidson Credit Corp. (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company, the Guarantor and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The Notes of this series are limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture) to the aggregate principal amount established from time to time by the Company Board of Directors. The Notes of this series may be issued at various times with different maturity dates and different principal repayment provisions, may bear interest at different rates and may otherwise vary, all as provided in the Indenture. The Notes of this series may be subject to redemption upon notice and in accordance with the provisions of this Note and the Indenture. The Company and the Guarantor may defease the Notes of this series in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
Notes
Indenture
Guarantor
Trustee
To secure the due and punctual payment of principal, any premium, any interest and Additional Amounts (as defined in the Indenture) on this Note by the Company under the Indenture, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Maturity Date, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, the Guarantor has unconditionally guaranteed this Note pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee endorsed hereon and in Section 1401 of the Indenture (the "").
Guarantee
 
As used herein, the term "" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York; , that if a Specified Currency is specified above, the day is also not a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in the Principal Financial Center (as defined below) of the country issuing such Specified Currency or, if such Specified Currency is the Euro, the day is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open; that if LIBOR is indicated above to be an applicable Interest Rate Basis, the day is also a London Banking Day (as defined below).
Business Day
provided, however
provided further
"" means, unless otherwise provided in this Note, the capital city of the country issuing the Specified Currency; except that with respect to United States dollars, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, South African rand and Swiss francs, the "Principal Financial Center" will be The City of New York, Sydney and (solely in the case of the Specified Currency) Melbourne, Toronto, Johannesburg and Zurich, respectively.
Principal Financial Center
"" means a day which commercial banks are open for business in London.
London Banking Day
Provisions Applicable To Fixed Rate Notes Only:
If the "Fixed Rate" line above is checked, unless otherwise specified above, the Company will pay interest semiannually on and of each year (each such date fixed for the payment of interest, an "") commencing , and on the Maturity Date or upon earlier redemption or repayment to the person to whom principal is payable. Interest shall accrue from the Original Issue Date, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for on this Note to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date, or earlier date of redemption or repayment, as the case may be. Interest on Fixed Rate Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
    
    
Interest Payment Date
        
If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment) of this Fixed Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment will be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date such payment was due, and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment), as the case may be.
Provisions Applicable To Floating Rate Notes Only:
If the "Floating Rate" line above is checked, the Company will pay interest on the Interest Payment Dates shown specified above at the Initial Interest Rate specified above until the first Interest Reset Date specified above following the Original Issue Date specified above and thereafter at a rate determined in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth under the headings "Determination of CD Rate," "Determination of CMT Rate," "Determination of Commercial Paper Rate," "Determination of Federal Funds Rate," "Determination of LIBOR," "Determination of Prime Rate" or "Determination of Treasury Rate," depending on whether the
 
Interest Rate Basis is the CD Rate, the CMT Rate, the Commercial Paper Rate, the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, the Prime Rate, the Treasury Rate or other Interest Rate Basis.
An interest payment shall be the amount of interest accrued from and including the Original Issue Date, or from and including the last Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid, to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date, or date of earlier redemption or repayment, as the case may be (an ""). Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the interest rate hereon shall not be greater than the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, or less than the Minimum Interest Rate, if any, specified above.
Interest Period
If any Interest Payment Date for any Floating Rate Note, other than an Interest Payment Date at maturity, would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be the following day that is a Business Day, and interest will continue to accrue to the following Business Day, except that if LIBOR is the applicable Interest Rate Basis, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date will be the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day. If the Maturity Date (or date of earlier redemption or repayment) of any Floating Rate Note would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of interest and principal (and premium, if any) may be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment).
Commencing with the first Interest Reset Date specified above following the Original Issue Date, the rate at which interest on this Note is payable shall be adjusted daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually as specified above under "Interest Reset Dates."
The interest rate borne by this Note will be determined as follows:
(i) Unless the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as a "Floating Rate/Fixed Rate Note" or an "Inverse Floating Rate Note" or in the event either "Other Provisions" or an Addendum hereto applies, in each case, relating to a different interest rate formula, this Note shall be designated as a "Regular Floating Rate Note" and, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, shall bear interest at the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases (a) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or (b) multiplied by the applicable Spread Multiplier, if any; in each case as specified above. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset as of each Interest Reset Date specified above; , that the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial Interest Rate.
provided, however
(ii) If the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as a "Floating Rate/Fixed Rate Note" then, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, this Note shall bear interest at the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases (a) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or (b) multiplied by the Spread Multiplier, if any, in each case as specified above. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset as of each Interest Reset Date; , , that (y) the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial
provided
however
 
Interest Rate and (z) the interest rate in effect for the period commencing on, and including, the Fixed Rate Commencement Date specified above to the Maturity Date (or date of earlier redemption or repayment) shall be the Fixed Interest Rate specified above or, if no Fixed Interest Rate is so specified, the interest rate in effect on the day immediately preceding the Fixed Rate Commencement Date.
(iii) If the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as an "Inverse Floating Rate Note" then, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, this Note shall bear interest at (a) the Fixed Interest Rate specified above minus (b) the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases:
(x) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or
(y) multiplied by the applicable Spread Multiplier, if any, in each case as specified above;
, , that, unless otherwise specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, the interest rate hereon shall not be less than zero. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset on each Interest Reset Date; , , that the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial Interest Rate set forth above.
provided
however
provided
however
The "" is the number of basis points (one basis point equals one-hundredth of a percentage point) specified above to be added to or subtracted from the Interest Rate Basis for a Floating Rate Note, and the "" is the percentage specified above by which the Interest Rate Basis for such Floating Rate Note will be multiplied. Both a Spread and/or a Spread Multiplier may be applicable to the Interest Rate Basis for a particular Floating Rate Note, as set forth above.
Spread
Spread Multiplier
Each such adjusted Interest Rate Basis shall be applicable on and after the Interest Reset Date to which it relates but not including the next succeeding Interest Reset Date. If any Interest Reset Date is a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that if the rate of interest on this Note shall be determined by reference to LIBOR and such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. In addition, if the Treasury Rate is the applicable Interest Rate Basis and the Interest Determination Date would otherwise fall on an Interest Reset Date, then the Interest Reset Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day. Subject to applicable provisions of law (including usury laws) and except as specified in this Note, on each Interest Reset Date, the rate of interest on this Note shall be the rate determined in accordance with the provisions of the applicable heading below.
With respect to a Floating Rate Note, accrued interest shall be calculated by multiplying the principal amount of thereof by an accrued interest factor. Such accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day in the Interest Period or from the last date from which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor for each such day is computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to such day by 360, in the cases of CD Rate
 
Notes, Commercial Paper Rate Notes, Federal Funds Rate Notes, LIBOR Notes and Prime Rate Notes or by the number of days in the year, in the cases of CMT Rate Notes and Treasury Rate Notes. The interest rate applicable to any day that is an Interest Reset Date will be the interest rate effective on such Interest Reset Date. The interest rate applicable to any other day will be the interest rate for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Date (or, if none, the Initial Interest Rate, as specified above).
The "," where applicable, pertaining to an Interest Determination Date will be the earlier of (i) the tenth calendar day after such Interest Determination Date or, if any such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day or (ii) the Business Day preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment), as the case may be.
Calculation Date
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. shall be the calculation agent unless another calculation agent is specified above (the ""). The interest rate applicable to each interest period will be determined by the Calculation Agent on or prior to the applicable Calculation Date. At the request of the Holder, the Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate which will become effective on the next Interest Reset Date.
Calculation Agent
All percentages resulting from any calculation of the rate of interest on a Floating Rate Note will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percent (.0000001), with five one-millionths of a percentage point rounded upward, and all dollar amounts used in or resulting from such calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest cent (with one-half cent being rounded upward).
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the CD Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity specified above as published in H.15(519) (as defined below) on such CD Interest Determination Date under the heading "CDs (secondary market)." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the CD Rate shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit of the Index Maturity specified above as published in H.15 Daily Update (as defined below), or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "CDs (secondary market)." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the CD Rate shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent on the Notes as the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date, of three leading non-bank dealers in negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit in The City of New York selected by the Calculation Agent for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit of major United States money market banks with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above in an amount that is representative for a single transaction in that
Determination of CD Rate
CD Rate
CD Interest Determination Date
 
market at that time. If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent as provided in the preceding sentence are not quoting as mentioned in such sentence, the CD Rate shall be the CD Rate in effect on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date.
"" means the weekly statistical release designated as H.15(519), or any successor publication, published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
H.15(519)
"" means the daily update of H.15(519), available through the world-wide-web site of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System at http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/update, or any successor site or publication.
H.15 Daily Update
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the CMT Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be (i) if "CMT Reuters Page FRBCMT" is specified above, the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as the yield is displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service), on page FRBCMT (or any other page as may replace the specified page on that service under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities")(""). If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear on Reuters Page FRBCMT, the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, and for the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities." In the event the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear in H.15(519), then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date for the period of the Index Maturity specified above, as may then be published by either the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or the United States Department of the Treasury that the Calculation Agent determines to be comparable to the rate which would otherwise have been published in H.15(519). In the event the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not published, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three leading primary United States government securities dealers in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates (each a ""), selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest), and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the Index Maturity specified above, a remaining term to maturity no more than one year shorter than the Index Maturity specified above and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two of the prices referred to in the above sentence are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations shall be eliminated; , , that if fewer than three prices referred to
Determination of CMT Rate
CMT Rate
CMT Interest Determination Date
Reuters Page FRBCMT
Reference Dealer
provided
however
 
above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation or, in the event of equality, one of the highest and the lowest quotation or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest, for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above, and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. However, if fewer than five but more than two prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations will be eliminated. If fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be the CMT Rate in effect on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date and (ii) if the CMT Reuters Page FEDCMT is specified above, the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified above, and will be the average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as the yield is displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service) on page FEDCMT (or any other page as may replace that specified page on that service) (""), for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which the related CMT Interest Determination Date falls. If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear on Reuters Page FEDCMT, then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified above, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, and for the week or month, as applicable, preceding the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) opposite the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear in H.15(519), then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be the one-week or one-month, as specified above, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as otherwise announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which the related CMT Interest Determination Date falls. If the Federal Reserve Bank of New York does not publish the rate referred to above, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest), and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity no more than one year shorter than the Index Maturity specified above, and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two of the prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate on the
Reuters Page FEDCMT
 
applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations shall be eliminated. If fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation or (in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above and will be in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations will be eliminated, or if fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate will be the CMT Rate in effect on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date. If two United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity as specified above have remaining terms to maturity equally close to the Index Maturity specified above, the quotes for the United States Treasury security with the shorter original remaining term to maturity will be used.
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the Commercial Paper Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Commercial Paper Rate" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the Money Market Yield (as defined below) on such date of the rate for commercial paper having the Index Maturity as indicated above, as such rate shall be published in H.15(519) under the caption "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial." In the event that such rate is not published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, then the Commercial Paper Rate shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Money Market Yield of the Commercial Paper Rate on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity specified above, published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial." If by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, such rate is not yet published as provided in the preceding sentence, then the Commercial Paper Rate on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date of three leading dealers of United States dollar commercial paper in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent for commercial paper having the Index Maturity specified above, placed for industrial issuers whose bond rating is "Aa," or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization; , , that if the dealers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting offered rates as mentioned in this
Determination of Commercial Paper Rate
Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date
provided
however
 
sentence, the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Commercial Paper Rate in effect on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date.
"" shall be a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula and expressed as a percentage:
Money Market Yield
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal; and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to the Federal Funds Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Federal Funds Rate" with respect to each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the first Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate on that date for United States dollar Federal Funds as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Federal Funds (Effective)," as displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service) on page FEDFUND01 (or any other page as may replace the applicable page on that service)("") or, if such rate does not appear on Reuters Page FEDFUND01, or is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the rate on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date for United States dollar Federal Funds will be the rate on such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "Federal Funds (Effective)." If such rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate will be calculated by the Calculation Agent and will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight United States dollar Federal Funds arranged by three leading brokers of United States dollar Federal Funds transactions in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent before 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date; , , that if the brokers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Federal Funds Rate will be the Federal Funds Rate in effect on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date.
Determination of Federal Funds Rate
Federal Funds Interest Determination Date
Reuters Page FEDFUND 01
provided
however
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, LIBOR, unless otherwise specified above, "LIBOR" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second London Banking Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate (express as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars having a three-month maturity that appears on Reuters LIBOR01 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date, or if Reuters LIBOR01 is not available on such date, the Calculation Agent will obtain such rate from Bloomberg's page "BBAM." If such rate does not appear on Reuters LIBOR01 or Bloomberg's page "BBAM" on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, then the Calculation Agent will
Determination of LIBOR
LIBOR Interest Determination Date
 
request the principal London office of each of four major banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide a quotation of the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) offered by it to prime banks in the London interbank market for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars in a principal amount of at least $1,000,000 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date. If at least two such offered quotations are so provided, LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two such quotations are so provided, the Calculation Agent will request each of three major banks in New York City, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide a quotation of the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum), offered by it for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks having a three-month maturity in a principal amount of at least $1,000,000 at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date. If at least two such rates are so provided, LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the arithmetic mean of such rates. If fewer than two such rates are so provided, then LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the rate in effect on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date.
"" means the Capital Markets Report Screen LIBOR01 of Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service or page), for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates of major banks for U.S. dollars.
Reuters LIBOR01
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the Prime Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Prime Rate" with respect to each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the first Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate set forth on such date as published in H.15(519) under the caption "Bank Prime Loan," or if not so published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Prime Interest Determination Date, then the Prime Rate. will be as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate under the caption "Bank Prime Loan," or if not so published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Prime Interest Determination Date, then the Prime Rate will be determined by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank that appears on the Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page (as defined below) as the particular bank's prime rate or base lending rate as of 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date. If fewer than four such rates are so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date as shown on the Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page for the Prime Interest Determination Date, the Prime Rate will be determined by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base lending rates quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by a 360-day year as of the close of business on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date by three major banks, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, in The City of New York selected by the Calculation Agent. However, if the banks selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in the preceding sentence, the Prime Rate will be the Prime Rate in effect on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date.
Determination of Prime Rate
Prime Interest Determination Date
 
"" means the display on the Reuter Money 3000 Service or any successor service on the "US PRIME 1 Page" or other page as may replace US PRIME 1 Page on that service for the purpose of displaying prime rates or base lending rates of major United States banks).
Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to the Treasury Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Treasury Rate" for each Interest Reset Date will be the rate from the auction held on the applicable Interest Determination Date (the "") of direct obligations of the United States ("") having the Index Maturity, as specified above, as published under the caption "Investment Rate" on the display on Reuters, Inc. or any successor service on page USAUCTION 10 or any other page as may replace page USAUCTION 10 on that service ("") or page USAUCTION 11 on that service (""), or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date (as defined below), the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate for the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Auction High," or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate of the applicable Treasury Bills announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or, if the rate is not announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or if the Auction is not held, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date of Treasury Bills having the Index Maturity specified above, published in H.15(519) under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market," or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date, the rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market." In the event that the results of the auction of Treasury Bills having the applicable Index Maturity specified above are not published or reported, as provided above, by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date or if no such auction is held on such Treasury Rate Determination Date, then the Treasury Rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and shall be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date, of three primary United States government securities dealers, which may include the agent or its affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent, for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above; , , that if the dealers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Treasury Rate will be the Treasury Rate in effect on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date.
Determination of Treasury Rate
Auction
Treasury Bills
Reuters Page USAUCTION 10
Reuters Page USAUCTION 11
provided
however
The "" for any Interest Reset Date will be the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls on which Treasury Bills would normally be auctioned. Treasury Bills are normally sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is normally held on the following Tuesday, except
Treasury Rate Determination Date
 
such auction may be held on the preceding Friday. If, as the result of a legal holiday, an auction is so held on the preceding Friday, such Friday will be the Treasury Rate Determination Date pertaining to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next succeeding week.
"" means a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula and expressed as a percentage:
Bond Equivalent Yield
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal; "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
Provisions Applicable To Both Fixed Rate Notes And Floating Rate Notes:
The interest so payable on any Interest Payment Date will, subject to certain exceptions in the Indenture hereinafter referred to, be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date (as defined below) immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date or, if the Interest Payment Date is the Maturity Date or the date of earlier redemption or repayment, to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Maturity Date or such earlier date of redemption or repayment; , , that if the Original Issue Date is between a Regular Record Date and an Interest Payment Date or on an Interest Payment Date, interest for the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the Interest Payment Date relating to such Regular Record Date shall be paid on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date to the person in whose name this Note is registered on the close of business on the Regular Record Date preceding such Interest Payment Date. If this Note bears interest at a Fixed Rate, as specified above, unless otherwise specified above, the "" with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be the first day of and preceding such Interest Payment Date, whether or not such date shall be a Business Day. If this Note bears interest at a Floating Rate, as specified above, the ."Regular Record Date" with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be the fifteenth calendar day next preceding such Interest Payment Date, whether or not such date shall be a Business Day.
provided
however
Regular Record Date
                    
                    
Payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note due on the Maturity Date or any earlier redemption or repayment date will be made in immediately available funds upon presentation and surrender of this Note; , , that if a Specified Currency is specified above and such payment is to be made in such Specified Currency in accordance with the provisions set forth below, such payment will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account with a bank designated by the Holder hereof at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date or such earlier redemption or repayment date, as the case may be, provided that such bank has appropriate facilities therefor and that this Note is presented and surrendered at the Place of Payment specified above in time for the Trustee to make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payment of interest due on any Interest Payment Date, other than the Maturity Date or any earlier redemption or repayment date, will be made at the Place of Payment specified above.
provided
however
 
Whenever in this Note or in the Indenture there is a reference, in any context, to the payment of the principal of, or interest, if any, on, or in respect of, the Notes, such payment shall be deemed to include the payment of Additional Amounts to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect of such payment pursuant to the provisions hereof or thereof and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provision hereof or thereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
The Company is obligated to make payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note in United States dollars or, if a Specified Currency is indicated above, in such Specified Currency (or, if such Specified Currency is not at the time of such payment legal tender for the payment of public and private debts of the country issuing such currency or, in the case of the Euro, in the member states of the European Union that have adopted the single currency in accordance with the Treaty Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union, such other currency which is then such legal tender in such country or in the adopting member states of the European Union, as the case may be). If a Specified Currency is specified above, except as otherwise provided below, any such amounts so payable by the Company will be converted by a New York clearing house bank designated by the Company (the "") into United States dollars for payment to the Holder of this Note.
Exchange Rate Agent
If a Specified Currency is specified above, the Holder of this Note may elect to receive any amount payable hereunder in such Specified Currency. If the Holder of this Note shall not have duly made an election to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency, any United States dollar amount to be received by the Holder of this Note will be based on the highest bid quotation in The City of New York received by the Exchange Rate Agent at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the applicable payment date from three recognized foreign exchange dealers (one of whom may be the Exchange Rate Agent) selected by the Exchange Rate Agent and approved by the Company for the purchase by the quoting dealer of the Specified Currency for United States dollars for settlement on such payment date in the aggregate amount of the Specified Currency payable to all Holders of Notes scheduled to receive United States dollar payments and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract. All currency exchange costs will be borne by the Holder of this Note by deductions from such payments. If three such bid quotations are not available, payments on this Note will be made in the Specified Currency.
If a Specified Currency is specified above, the Holder of this Note may elect to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency by submitting a written request for such payment to the Trustee at the Place of Payment specified above on or prior to the applicable Record Date or at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption or repayment date), as the case may be. Such written request may be mailed or hand delivered or sent by facsimile transmission. The Holder of this Note may elect to receive all or a specified portion of all future payments in the Specified Currency in respect of such principal, premium, if any, and/or interest and need not file a separate election for each payment. Such election will remain in effect until revoked by written notice to the Trustee, but written notice of any such revocation must be
 
received by the Trustee on or prior to the applicable Record Date or at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption or repayment date), as the case may be.
If a Specified Currency is specified above and the Holder of this Note shall have duly made an election to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency, but such Specified Currency is not available for such payment due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to the Holder of this Note by making such payment in United States dollars on the basis of the Market Exchange Rate (as defined below) determined by the Exchange Rate Agent on the second Business Day prior to such payment date or, if such Market Exchange Rate is not then available, on the basis of the most recently available Market Exchange Rate on or before the date on which such payment is due. The "" for the Specified Currency means the noon dollar buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers of the Specified Currency as certified for customs purposes (or, if not so certified, as otherwise determined) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Any payment made in United States dollars under such circumstances shall not constitute an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture).
Market Exchange Rate
All determinations referred to above made by the Exchange Rate Agent shall be at its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this Note.
In case an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount (or, if the Note is an Original Issue Discount Note, such lesser portion of the principal amount as may be applicable) of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable, and, with respect to certain Events of Default, shall automatically become due and payable, in each case in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. If this Note is an Original Issue Discount Note, in the event of an acceleration of the Maturity Date hereof, the amount payable to the Holder of this Note upon such acceleration will be determined by this Note but will be an amount less than the amount payable at the Maturity Date of this Note.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Guarantor and the rights of the Holders of the Securities (as defined in the Indenture) of each series to be affected by such modification under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Guarantor with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities (as defined in the Indenture) of each series to be affected by such modification. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company and the Guarantor with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.
This Note is issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof or other Authorized Denomination specified above.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered in the Security Register of this series upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the Place of Payment specified above, duly endorsed by or accompanied by, a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee, duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon a new Note or Notes of this series of Authorized Denomination and for the same aggregate principal amount, with the Guarantee endorsed thereon, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Trustee, and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered in the Security Register as the owner of this Note for all purposes (other than for the determination of any Additional Amounts payable) and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
If so specified above, this Note will be redeemable at the Company's option on the date or dates specified prior to the Maturity Date at a price or prices, each as specified above, together with accrued interest to the date of redemption. This Note will not be subject to any sinking fund. If so redeemable, the Company may redeem this Note either in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30, nor more than 60, days' notice before the date of redemption. If less than all of the Notes with like tenor and terms are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
This Notes will be subject to redemption at the option of the Company, in whole or in part at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of this Note to be redeemed, and (ii) as determined by the Quotation Agent (as defined below), the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on this Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus basis points, and accrued but unpaid interest thereon.
    
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
"" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the trustee obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Quotation Agent
"" means (i) each of and (and their respective successors) and three other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are Primary Treasury Dealers specified from time to time by the Company; , that if the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
                    
                    
provided, however
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
Notice of any redemption will be-mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to the Holder hereof at its address as such address shall appear in the Security Register of the Company. Unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the principal amount of this Note called for redemption.
If an HDI Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem this Note as described above, the Company will be required to make an offer (the "") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "").
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Within 30 days following any HDI Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any HDI Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes, or would constitute upon consummation thereof, the HDI Change of Control, a notice will be mailed to Holders of the Notes describing the transaction that constitutes, or would constitute upon consummation thereof, the HDI Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the HDI Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the HDI Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Payment Date
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with a Company Officers' Certificate (as defined in the Indenture) stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
The Company will not be required to comply with the obligations relating to repurchasing the Notes if a third party instead satisfies them.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations applicable to the repurchase of the Notes. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
Exchange Act
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following terms will be applicable:
"" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of an HDI Change of Control and (2) public notice of the intention of Harley-Davidson, Inc. ("") to effect an HDI Change of Control (which 60-day period will be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular HDI Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of HDI Change of Control Triggering Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable HDI Change of Control (whether or not the applicable HDI Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
HDI
provided
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of HDI who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of HDI in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
Continuing Director
"" means Fitch Inc.
Fitch
 
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than HDI or one of its subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of HDI or other Voting Stock into which the Voting Stock of HDI is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of HDI and the assets of the subsidiaries of HDI, taken as a whole, to one or more "persons" (as that term is defined in the Indenture), other than HDI or one of its subsidiaries; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of HDI are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to be an HDI Change of Control if (1) HDI becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Voting Stock of HDI immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
HDI Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both an HDI Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
HDI Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's, BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch, and (2) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
The Company can "reopen" a previously issued tranche of Notes and issue additional Notes of such tranche or establish additional terms of such tranche or issue notes with the same terms as previously issued Notes.
The Company may at any time purchase this Note at any price in the open market or otherwise. Notes so purchased by the Company may be held or resold or, at the discretion of the Company, may be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligations of the Company and the Guarantor, which are absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Note, at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
By acceptance of this Note, the Holder hereof agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Indenture. Terms used herein which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Indenture. This Note shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture.
 
, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed, manually or by facsimile by an authorized signatory.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
For value received, undersigned hereby fully, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee contained in Article Fourteen of the Indenture, to the Holder of this Note and to the Trustee, on behalf of the Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and any premium, interest and any Additional Amounts on, this Note, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of this Note and the Indenture. This Guarantee will not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Trustee duly executes the certificate of authentication on the Note upon which this Guarantee is endorsed.
Dated:
 
 
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto:
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
(Please insert social security or other identifying number of assignee)
 
 
 
 
 
the within Note, and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the within Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                    
 
SIGNATURE(S) GUARANTEED:
THE SIGNATURE(S) SHOULD BE GUARANTEED BY AN ELIGIBLE GUARANTOR INSTITUTION (BANKS, STOCKBROKERS, SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS AND CREDIT UNIONS WITH MEMBERSHIP IN AN APPROVED SIGNATURE GUARANTEE MEDALLION PROGRAM) PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17Ad-15.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc.
222 West Adams Street, Suite 2000
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Facsimile:
Attention:
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Facsimile: (312) 827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Re: % Notes due 20            CUSIP:
    
    
                    
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of March 4, 2011 (the ""), among Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), the Guarantor and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
(the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount at maturity of $ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""), to (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
                             
Transferor
            
Transfer
                            
Transferee
[CHECK ALL THAT APPLY]
1. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or definitive Note shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A global Note or a definitive Note Pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
 
enumerated in the legend printed on the 144A global Note and/or the definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
2. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the "Restricted Period" as defined in Regulation S, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than the Agents). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or definitive Note shall be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the legend printed on the Regulation S temporary global Note, Regulation S permanent global Note and/or the definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S temporary global Note, Regulation S permanent global Note or a definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
3. . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in restricted global Notes and restricted definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
(a) such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act; or
(b) such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof; or
(c) such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act; or
(d) such Transfer is being effected to an institutional "accredited investor" and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Note or Restricted
 
Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit C to the Indenture and (2) if the principal amount of Notes to be transferred is less than $100,000, an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or definitive Note shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the legend printed on the definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
4.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an unrestricted global Note or of an unrestricted definitive Note
.
(a) . (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or definitive Note shall no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the legend printed on the restricted global Notes, on restricted definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Rule 144
(b) . (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or definitive Note shall no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the legend printed on the restricted global Notes, on restricted definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S
(c) . (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or definitive Note shall not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the legend printed on the restricted global Notes or restricted definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
 
(A)         a beneficial interest in the:
       (i)         144A global Note (CUSIP: ); or
                    
       (ii)       Regulation S global Note (CUSIP: ); or
                    
(B)         a restricted definitive Note.
 
(A)     a beneficial interest in the:
       (i)         144A global Note (CUSIP: ); or
                    
       (ii)       Regulation S global Note (CUSIP: ); or
                    
       (iii)      unrestricted global Note; or
(B)     a restricted definitive Note; or
(C)     an unrestricted definitive Note,
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
EXHIBIT C
Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc.
150 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Facsimile:
Attention:
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Facsimile: (312) 827-8542
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Re: % Notes due 20            CUSIP:
    
    
                    
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of March 4, 2011 (the ""), among Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), the Guarantor and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
In connection with our proposed purchase of $ aggregate principal amount at maturity of:
            
(a)      beneficial interest in a global Note, or
(b)      a definitive Note,
we confirm that:
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we shall do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein), (C) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to you and to the
 
Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and a written opinion from legal counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any person purchasing the definitive Note or beneficial interest in a global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Notes or beneficial interest therein, we shall be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us shall bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
Dated:
 
EXHIBIT D
This is to certify that the above-captioned Securities are not being acquired by or on behalf of a United States person or for offer to resell or for resale to a United States person or any person inside the United States or, if a beneficial interest in the Securities is being acquired by or on behalf of a United States person or any person inside the United States, that such United States person is a financial institution within the meaning of Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(v) of the United States Treasury regulations which agrees to comply with the requirements of Section 165 (j) (3) (A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder and which is not purchasing for offer to resell or for resale inside the United States.
As used herein, "United States person" means any citizen or resident of the United States, any corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States and any estate the income of which is subject to United States Federal income taxation regardless of its source or a trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust, and "United States" means the United States (including the States and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
We undertake to advise you by telex if the above statement as to beneficial ownership is not correct on the date of delivery of the above-captioned Securities in bearer form as to all of such Securities.
This certificate excepts and does not relate to U.S. $             principal amount of the above-captioned Securities appearing in your books as being held for our account as to which we are not able to certify as to the matters set forth herein and as to which we understand exchange and delivery of definitive Securities cannot be made until we are able so to certify.
We understand that this certificate may be required in connection with certain tax legislation in the United States. If administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate or a copy thereof to any interested party in such proceedings.
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
Reference is made to the Indenture dated as of March 4, 2011 (the "Indenture") among Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc. (the "Company"), Harley-Davidson Credit Corp. (the "Guarantor") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee ("Trustee"), previously delivered to you. Terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.
Pursuant to Sections 102 and 301 of the Indenture, the undersigned, Michael E. Sulentic and James Darrell Thomas, in their respective capacities as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Vice President and Treasurer of the Company, hereby certify that (1) there has been established a series of Securities under the Indenture titled Medium-Term Notes, Due Nine Months or More from Date of Issue (the "Notes"), (2) the form of note duly completed and attached hereto as is one of the Notes (the "Note"), (3) in addition to the terms provided in, or established pursuant to, the Indenture, the offering memorandum and the pricing supplement, each dated as of March 1, 2011, relating to the Notes (together referred to as the "Offering Memorandum"), the Note, as authenticated and delivered, shall have the terms set forth in (which terms are incorporated herein by reference and deemed to be set forth herein in full) (in the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Note and the Offering Memorandum, the provisions of the Note shall prevail), (4) the Note shall be registered in the name set forth on and the Note shall be delivered in the manner specified in the Administrative Procedures for book-entry notes attached as Exhibit A to the Company Order delivered as of the date hereof and as described in the Private Placement Agency Agreement dated as of March 1, 2011 (the "Private Placement Agency Agreement"), among the Company, the Guarantor and the Agents party thereto, previously delivered to you, (5) the issuance of Notes designated as 3.875% Medium-Term Notes due 2016, in an initial aggregate principal amount of $450,000,000, have been approved and authorized in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture pursuant to resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company by unanimous written consent dated as of March 4, 2011 and by this Officers' Certificate, (6) all covenants and conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture relating to the establishment of the Securities, the terms of the Securities and the authentication and issuance of the Securities have been complied with, and (7) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the execution and delivery of the Indenture will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default under, the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of the Company, or any order of any court or administrative agency entered in any proceeding to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound or to which it is subject.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Each of the undersigned officers of the Company further states (a) that he has read the provisions of Section 301 of the Indenture and the definitions relating thereto, (b) that the statements made in this certificate are based upon an examination of the provisions of the Indenture and upon the relevant books and records of the Company, (c) in the opinion of such
officer, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not the conditions set forth in the Indenture have been complied with and (d) in the opinion of such officer, such conditions have been complied with.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned officers of the Company has affixed his signature this 4th day of March, 2011.
 
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE) OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (""), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "") OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION, AND, ACCORDINGLY, NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, AND (2) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE
SECURITIES ACT
COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE THEREOF WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY) ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHICH NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN OFFSHORE TRANSACTIONS WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) TO AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF SUBPARAGRAPH (a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) OF RULE 501 OF REGULATION D UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF SUCH AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR, FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO, OR FOR OFFER OR SALE IN CONNECTION WITH, ANY DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (i) PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (E) OR (F) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND (ii) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY BE COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER FROM IT OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH ABOVE.
 
 
 
 
 
Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the Principal Amount specified above, as revised by the Schedule of Increases and Decreases in Global Security attached hereto, on the Maturity Date specified above and to pay to the registered holder of this Note (the "") interest on said Principal Amount at a rate per annum specified above and upon the terms provided below under either the heading "Provisions Applicable to Fixed Rate Notes Only" or "Provisions Applicable to Floating Rate Notes Only."
Company
Holder
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of notes of the Company (herein referred to as the ""), all issued or to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of March 4, 2011 (as may be supplemented from time to time, the ""), among the Company, Harley-Davidson Credit Corp. (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company, the Guarantor and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The Notes of this series are limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture) to the aggregate principal amount established from time to time by the Company Board of Directors. The Notes of this series may be issued at various times with different maturity dates and different principal repayment provisions, may bear interest at different rates and may otherwise vary, all as provided in the Indenture. The Notes of this series may be subject to redemption upon notice and in accordance with the provisions of this Note and the Indenture. The Company and the Guarantor may defease the Notes of this series in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
Notes
Indenture
Guarantor
Trustee
To secure the due and punctual payment of principal, any premium, any interest and Additional Amounts (as defined in the Indenture) on this Note by the Company under the Indenture, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Maturity Date, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, the Guarantor has unconditionally guaranteed this Note pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee endorsed hereon and in Section 1401 of the Indenture (the "").
Guarantee
 
As used herein, the term "" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York; , , that if a Specified Currency is specified above, the day is also not a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in the Principal Financial Center (as defined below) of the country issuing such Specified Currency or, if such Specified Currency is the Euro, the day is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open; provided further that if LIBOR is indicated above to be an applicable Interest Rate Basis, the day is also a London Banking Day (as defined below).
Business Day
provided
however
"" means, unless otherwise provided in this Note, the capital city of the country issuing the Specified Currency; except that with respect to United States dollars, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, South African rand and Swiss francs, the "Principal Financial Center" will be The City of New York, Sydney and (solely in the case of the Specified Currency) Melbourne, Toronto, Johannesburg and Zurich, respectively.
Principal Financial Center
"" means a day which commercial banks are open for business in London.
London Banking Day
Provisions Applicable To Fixed Rate Notes Only:
If the "Fixed Rate" line above is checked, unless otherwise specified above, the Company will pay interest semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year (each such date fixed for the payment of interest, an "") commencing on September 15, 2011 and on the Maturity Date or upon earlier redemption or repayment to the person to whom principal is payable. Interest shall accrue from the Original Issue Date, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for on this Note to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date, or earlier date of redemption or repayment, as the case may be. Interest on Fixed Rate Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Interest Payment Date
If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment) of this Fixed Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment will be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date such payment was due, and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment), as the case may be.
Provisions Applicable To Floating Rate Notes Only:
If the "Floating Rate" line above is checked, the Company will pay interest on the Interest Payment Dates shown specified above at the Initial Interest Rate specified above until the first Interest Reset Date specified above following the Original Issue Date specified above and thereafter at a rate determined in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth under the headings "Determination of CD Rate," "Determination of CMT Rate," "Determination of
 
Commercial Paper Rate," "Determination of Federal Funds Rate," "Determination of LIBOR," "Determination of Prime Rate" or "Determination of Treasury Rate," depending on whether the Interest Rate Basis is the CD Rate, the CMT Rate, the Commercial Paper Rate, the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, the Prime Rate, the Treasury Rate or other Interest Rate Basis.
An interest payment shall be the amount of interest accrued from and including the Original Issue Date, or from and including the last Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid, to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date, or date of earlier redemption or repayment, as the case may be (an ""). Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the interest rate hereon shall not be greater than the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, or less than the Minimum Interest Rate, if any, specified above.
Interest Period
If any Interest Payment Date for any Floating Rate Note, other than an Interest Payment Date at maturity, would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be the following day that is a Business Day, and interest will continue to accrue to the following Business Day, except that if LIBOR is the applicable Interest Rate Basis, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date will be the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day. If the Maturity Date (or date of earlier redemption or repayment) of any Floating Rate Note would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of interest and principal (and premium, if any) may be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment).
Commencing with the first Interest Reset Date specified above following the Original Issue Date, the rate at which interest on this Note is payable shall be adjusted daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually as specified above under "Interest Reset Dates."
The interest rate borne by this Note will be determined as follows:
(i) Unless the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as a "Floating Rate/Fixed Rate Note" or an "Inverse Floating Rate Note" or in the event either "Other Provisions" or an Addendum hereto applies, in each case, relating to a different interest rate formula, this Note shall be designated as a "Regular Floating Rate Note" and, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, shall bear interest at the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases (a) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or (b) multiplied by the applicable Spread Multiplier, if any; in each case as specified above. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset as of each Interest Reset Date specified above; , that the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial Interest Rate.
provided, however
(ii) If the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as a "Floating Rate/Fixed Rate Note" then, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, this Note shall bear interest at the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases (a) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or (b) multiplied by the Spread Multiplier, if any, in each case as specified above. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be
 
reset as of each Interest Reset Date; , , that (y) the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial Interest Rate and (z) the interest rate in effect for the period commencing on, and including, the Fixed Rate Commencement Date specified above to the Maturity Date (or date of earlier redemption or repayment) shall be the Fixed Interest Rate specified above or, if no Fixed Interest Rate is so specified, the interest rate in effect on the day immediately preceding the Fixed Rate Commencement Date.
provided
however
(iii) If the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as an "Inverse Floating Rate Note" then, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, this Note shall bear interest at (a) the Fixed Interest Rate specified above minus (b) the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases:
(x) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or
(y) multiplied by the applicable Spread Multiplier, if any, in each case as specified above;
, , that, unless otherwise specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, the interest rate hereon shall not be less than zero. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset on each Interest Reset Date; , , that the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial Interest Rate set forth above.
provided
however
provided
however
The "" is the number of basis points (one basis point equals one-hundredth of a percentage point) specified above to be added to or subtracted from the Interest Rate Basis for a Floating Rate Note, and the "" is the percentage specified above by which the Interest Rate Basis for such Floating Rate Note will be multiplied. Both a Spread and/or a Spread Multiplier may be applicable to the Interest Rate Basis for a particular Floating Rate Note, as set forth above.
Spread
Spread Multiplier
Each such adjusted Interest Rate Basis shall be applicable on and after the Interest Reset Date to which it relates but not including the next succeeding Interest Reset Date. If any Interest Reset Date is a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that if the rate of interest on this Note shall be determined by reference to LIBOR and such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. In addition, if the Treasury Rate is the applicable Interest Rate Basis and the Interest Determination Date would otherwise fall on an Interest Reset Date, then the Interest Reset Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day. Subject to applicable provisions of law (including usury laws) and except as specified in this Note, on each Interest Reset Date, the rate of interest on this Note shall be the rate determined in accordance with the provisions of the applicable heading below.
With respect to a Floating Rate Note, accrued interest shall be calculated by multiplying the principal amount of thereof by an accrued interest factor. Such accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day in the Interest Period or from the last date from which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor for each such day is
 
computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to such day by 360, in the cases of CD Rate Notes, Commercial Paper Rate Notes, Federal Funds Rate Notes, LIBOR Notes and Prime Rate Notes or by the number of days in the year, in the cases of CMT Rate Notes and Treasury Rate Notes. The interest rate applicable to any day that is an Interest Reset Date will be the interest rate effective on such Interest Reset Date. The interest rate applicable to any other day will be the interest rate for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Date (or, if none, the Initial Interest Rate, as specified above).
The "," where applicable, pertaining to an Interest Determination Date will be the earlier of (i) the tenth calendar day after such Interest Determination Date or, if any such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day or (ii) the Business Day preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment), as the case may be.
Calculation Date
For Floating Rate Notes, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. shall be the calculation agent unless another calculation agent is specified above (the ""). The interest rate applicable to each interest period will be determined by the Calculation Agent on or prior to the applicable Calculation Date. At the request of the Holder, the Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate which will become effective on the next Interest Reset Date.
Calculation Agent
All percentages resulting from any calculation of the rate of interest on a Floating Rate Note will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percent (.0000001), with five one-millionths of a percentage point rounded upward, and all dollar amounts used in or resulting from such calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest cent (with one-half cent being rounded upward).
If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the CD Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity specified above as published in H.15(519) (as defined below) on such CD Interest Determination Date under the heading "CDs (secondary market)." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the CD Rate shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit of the Index Maturity specified above as published in H.15 Daily Update (as defined below), or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "CDs (secondary market)." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the CD Rate shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent on the Notes as the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date, of three leading non-bank dealers in negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit in The City of New York selected by the Calculation Agent for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit of major United States money market banks with a remaining maturity closest to the Index
Determination of CD Rate.
CD Rate
CD Interest Determination Date
 
Maturity specified above in an amount that is representative for a single transaction in that market at that time. If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent as provided in the preceding sentence are not quoting as mentioned in such sentence, the CD Rate shall be the CD Rate in effect on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date.
"" means the weekly statistical release designated as H.15(519), or any successor publication, published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
H.15(519)
"" means the daily update of H.15(519), available through the world-wide-web site of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System at http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/update, or any successor site or publication.
H.15 Daily Update
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the CMT Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be, if "CMT Reuters Page FRBCMT" is specified above, the percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as the yield is displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service), on page FRBCMT (or any other page as may replace the specified page on that service under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities")(""). If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear on Reuters Page FRBCMT, the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, and for the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities." In the event the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear in H.15(519), then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date for the period of the Index Maturity specified above, as may then be published by either the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or the United States Department of the Treasury that the Calculation Agent determines to be comparable to the rate which would otherwise have been published in H.15(519). In the event the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not published, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three leading primary United States government securities dealers in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates (each a ""), selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest), and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the Index Maturity specified above, a remaining term to maturity no more than one year shorter than the Index Maturity specified above and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two of the prices referred to in the above sentence are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations shall be eliminated; , , that if
Determination of CMT Rate
CMT Rate
CMT Interest Determination Date
Reuters Page FRBCMT
Reference Dealer
provided
however
 
fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation or, in the event of equality, one of the highest and the lowest quotation or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest, for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above, and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. However, if fewer than five but more than two prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations will be eliminated. If fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be the CMT Rate in effect on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date. If the CMT Reuters Page FEDCMT is specified above, the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified above, and will be the average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as the yield is displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service) on page FEDCMT (or any other page as may replace that specified page on that service) (""), for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which the related CMT Interest Determination Date falls. If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear on Reuters Page FEDCMT, then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified above, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, and for the week or month, as applicable, preceding the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) opposite the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear in H.15(519), then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be the one-week or one-month, as specified above, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as otherwise announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which the related CMT Interest Determination Date falls. If the Federal Reserve Bank of New York does not publish the rate referred to above, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest), and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity no more than one year shorter than the Index Maturity specified above, and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two of the
Reuters Page FEDCMT
 
prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations shall be eliminated. If fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation or (in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above and will be in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations will be eliminated, or if fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate will be the CMT Rate in effect on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date. If two United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity as specified above have remaining terms to maturity equally close to the Index Maturity specified above, the quotes for the United States Treasury security with the shorter original remaining term to maturity will be used.
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the Commercial Paper Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Commercial Paper Rate" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the Money Market Yield (as defined below) on such date of the rate for commercial paper having the Index Maturity as indicated above, as such rate shall be published in H.15(519) under the caption "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial." In the event that such rate is not published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, then the Commercial Paper Rate shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Money Market Yield of the Commercial Paper Rate on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity specified above, published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial." If by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, such rate is not yet published as provided in the preceding sentence, then the Commercial Paper Rate on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date of three leading dealers of United States dollar commercial paper in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent for commercial paper having the Index Maturity specified above, placed for industrial issuers whose bond rating is "Aa," or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization; , , that if the dealers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting offered rates as mentioned in this sentence, the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Commercial Paper Rate in effect on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date.
Determination of Commercial Paper Rate
Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date
provided
however
 
"" shall be a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula and expressed as a percentage:
Money Market Yield
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal; and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to the Federal Funds Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Federal Funds Rate" with respect to each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the first Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate on that date for United States dollar Federal Funds as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Federal Funds (Effective)," as displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service) on page FEDFUND01 (or any other page as may replace the applicable page on that service)("") or, if such rate does not appear on Reuters Page FEDFUND01, or is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the rate on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date for United States dollar Federal Funds will be the rate on such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "Federal Funds (Effective)." If such rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate will be calculated by the Calculation Agent and will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight United States dollar Federal Funds arranged by three leading brokers of United States dollar Federal Funds transactions in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent before 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date; , , that if the brokers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Federal Funds Rate will be the Federal Funds Rate in effect on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date.
Determination of Federal Funds Rate
Federal Funds Interest Determination Date
Reuters Page FEDFUND 01
provided
however
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, LIBOR, unless otherwise specified above, "LIBOR" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second London Banking Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate (express as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars having a three-month maturity that appears on Reuters LIBOR01 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date, or if Reuters LIBOR01 is not available on such date, the Calculation Agent will obtain such rate from Bloomberg's page "BBAM." If such rate does not appear on Reuters LIBOR01 or Bloomberg's page "BBAM" on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, then the Calculation Agent will
Determination of LIBOR
LIBOR Interest Determination Date
 
request the principal London office of each of four major banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide a quotation of the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) offered by it to prime banks in the London interbank market for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars in a principal amount of at least $1,000,000 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date. If at least two such offered quotations are so provided, LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two such quotations are so provided, the Calculation Agent will request each of three major banks in New York City, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide a quotation of the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum), offered by it for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks having a three-month maturity in a principal amount of at least $1,000,000 at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date. If at least two such rates are so provided, LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the arithmetic mean of such rates. If fewer than two such rates are so provided, then LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the rate in effect on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date.
"" means the Capital Markets Report Screen LIBOR01 of Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service or page), for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates of major banks for U.S. dollars.
Reuters LIBOR01
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the Prime Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Prime Rate" with respect to each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the first Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate set forth on such date as published in H.15(519) under the caption "Bank Prime Loan," or if not so published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Prime Interest Determination Date, then the Prime Rate. will be as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate under the caption "Bank Prime Loan," or if not so published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Prime Interest Determination Date, then the Prime Rate will be determined by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank that appears on the Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page (as defined below) as the particular bank's prime rate or base lending rate as of 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date. If fewer than four such rates are so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date as shown on the Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page for the Prime Interest Determination Date, the Prime Rate will be determined by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base lending rates quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by a 360-day year as of the close of business on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date by three major banks, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, in The City of New York selected by the Calculation Agent. However, if the banks selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in the preceding sentence, the Prime Rate will be the Prime Rate in effect on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date.
Determination of Prime Rate
Prime Interest Determination Date
 
"" means the display on the Reuter Money 3000 Service or any successor service on the "US PRIME 1 Page" or other page as may replace US PRIME 1 Page on that service for the purpose of displaying prime rates or base lending rates of major United States banks).
Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to the Treasury Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Treasury Rate" for each Interest Reset Date will be the rate from the auction held on the applicable Interest Determination Date (the "") of direct obligations of the United States ("") having the Index Maturity, as specified above, as published under the caption "Investment Rate" on the display on Reuters, Inc. or any successor service on page USAUCTION 10 or any other page as may replace page USAUCTION 10 on that service ("") or page USAUCTION 11 on that service (""), or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date (as defined below), the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate for the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Auction High," or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate of the applicable Treasury Bills announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or, if the rate is not announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or if the Auction is not held, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date of Treasury Bills having the Index Maturity specified above, published in H.15(519) under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market," or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date, the rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market." In the event that the results of the auction of Treasury Bills having the applicable Index Maturity specified above are not published or reported, as provided above, by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date or if no such auction is held on such Treasury Rate Determination Date, then the Treasury Rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and shall be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date, of three primary United States government securities dealers, which may include the agent or its affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent, for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above; , , that if the dealers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Treasury Rate will be the Treasury Rate in effect on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date.
Determination of Treasury Rate
Auction
Treasury Bills
Reuters Page USAUCTION 10
Reuters Page USAUCTION 11
provided
however
The "" for any Interest Reset Date will be the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls on which Treasury Bills would normally be auctioned. Treasury Bills are normally sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is normally held on the following Tuesday, except
Treasury Rate Determination Date
 
such auction may be held on the preceding Friday. If, as the result of a legal holiday, an auction is so held on the preceding Friday, such Friday will be the Treasury Rate Determination Date pertaining to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next succeeding week.
"" means a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula and expressed as a percentage:
Bond Equivalent Yield
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal; "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
Provisions Applicable To Both Fixed Rate Notes And Floating Rate Notes:
The interest so payable on any Interest Payment Date will, subject to certain exceptions in the Indenture hereinafter referred to, be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date (as defined below) immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date or, if the Interest Payment Date is the Maturity Date or the date of earlier redemption or repayment, to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Maturity Date or such earlier date of redemption or repayment; , , that if the Original Issue Date is between a Regular Record Date and an Interest Payment Date or on an Interest Payment Date, interest for the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the Interest Payment Date relating to such Regular Record Date shall be paid on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date to the person in whose name this Note is registered on the close of business on the Regular Record Date preceding such Interest Payment Date. If this Note bears interest at a Fixed Rate, as specified above, unless otherwise specified above, the "" with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be the first day of March and September, preceding such Interest Payment Date, whether or not such date shall be a Business Day. If this Note bears interest at a Floating Rate, as specified above, the "Regular Record Date" with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be the fifteenth calendar day next preceding such Interest Payment Date, whether or not such date shall be a Business Day.
provided
however
Regular Record Date
Payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note due on the Maturity Date or any earlier redemption or repayment date will be made in immediately available funds upon presentation and surrender of this Note; , , that if a Specified Currency is specified above and such payment is to be made in such Specified Currency in accordance with the provisions set forth below, such payment will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account with a bank designated by the Holder hereof at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date or such earlier redemption or repayment date, as the case may be, provided that such bank has appropriate facilities therefor and that this Note is presented and surrendered at the Place of Payment specified above in time for the Trustee to make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payment of interest due on any Interest Payment Date, other than the Maturity Date or any earlier redemption or repayment date, will be made at the Place of Payment specified above.
provided
however
 
Whenever in this Note or in the Indenture there is a reference, in any context, to the payment of the principal of, or interest, if any, on, or in respect of, the Notes, such payment shall be deemed to include the payment of Additional Amounts to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect of such payment pursuant to the provisions hereof or thereof and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provision hereof or thereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
The Company is obligated to make payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note in United States dollars or, if a Specified Currency is indicated above, in such Specified Currency (or, if such Specified Currency is not at the time of such payment legal tender for the payment of public and private debts of the country issuing such currency or, in the case of the Euro, in the member states of the European Union that have adopted the single currency in accordance with the Treaty Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union, such other currency which is then such legal tender in such country or in the adopting member states of the European Union, as the case may be). If a Specified Currency is specified above, except as otherwise provided below, any such amounts so payable by the Company will be converted by a New York clearing house bank designated by the Company (the "") into United States dollars for payment to the Holder of this Note.
Exchange Rate Agent
If a Specified Currency is specified above, the Holder of this Note may elect to receive any amount payable hereunder in such Specified Currency. If the Holder of this Note shall not have duly made an election to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency, any United States dollar amount to be received by the Holder of this Note will be based on the highest bid quotation in The City of New York received by the Exchange Rate Agent at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the applicable payment date from three recognized foreign exchange dealers (one of whom may be the Exchange Rate Agent) selected by the Exchange Rate Agent and approved by the Company for the purchase by the quoting dealer of the Specified Currency for United States dollars for settlement on such payment date in the aggregate amount of the Specified Currency payable to all Holders of Notes scheduled to receive United States dollar payments and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract. All currency exchange costs will be borne by the Holder of this Note by deductions from such payments. If three such bid quotations are not available, payments on this Note will be made in the Specified Currency.
If a Specified Currency is specified above, the Holder of this Note may elect to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency by submitting a written request for such payment to the Trustee at the Place of Payment on or prior to the applicable Record Date or at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption or repayment date), as the case may be. Such written request may be mailed or hand delivered or sent by facsimile transmission. The Holder of this Note may elect to receive all or a specified portion of all future payments in the Specified Currency in respect of such principal, premium, if any, and/or interest and need not file a separate election for each payment. Such election will remain in effect until revoked by written notice to the Trustee, but written notice of any such revocation must be received by the Trustee on or prior to the applicable Record Date or at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption or repayment date), as the case may be.
 
If a Specified Currency is specified above and the Holder of this Note shall have duly made an election to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency, but such Specified Currency is not available for such payment due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to the Holder of this Note by making such payment in United States dollars on the basis of the Market Exchange Rate (as defined below) determined by the Exchange Rate Agent on the second Business Day prior to such payment date or, if such Market Exchange Rate is not then available, on the basis of the most recently available Market Exchange Rate on or before the date on which such payment is due. The "" for the Specified Currency means the noon dollar buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers of the Specified Currency as certified for customs purposes (or, if not so certified, as otherwise determined) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Any payment made in United States dollars under such circumstances shall not constitute an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture).
Market Exchange Rate
All determinations referred to above made by the Exchange Rate Agent shall be at its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this Note.
In case an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount (or, if the Note is an Original Issue Discount Note, such lesser portion of the principal amount as may be applicable) of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable, and, with respect to certain Events of Default, shall automatically become due and payable, in each case in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. If this Note is an Original Issue Discount Note, in the event of an acceleration of the Maturity Date hereof, the amount payable to the Holder of this Note upon such acceleration will be determined by this Note but will be an amount less than the amount payable at the Maturity Date of this Note.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Guarantor and the rights of the Holders of the Securities (as defined in the Indenture) of each series to be affected by such modification under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Guarantor with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities (as defined in the Indenture) of each series to be affected by such modification. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company and the Guarantor with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.
This Note is issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof or other Authorized Denomination specified above.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered in the Security Register of this series upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the Place of Payment specified above, duly endorsed by or accompanied by, a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee, duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon a new Note or Notes of this series of Authorized Denomination and for the same aggregate principal amount, with the Guarantee endorsed thereon, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Trustee, and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered in the Security Register as the owner of this Note for all purposes (other than for the determination of any Additional Amounts payable) and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
If so specified above, this Note will be redeemable at the Company's option on the date or dates specified prior to the Maturity Date at a price or prices, each as specified above, together with accrued interest to the date of redemption. This Note will not be subject to any sinking fund. If so redeemable, the Company may redeem this Note either in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30, nor more than 60, days' notice before the date of redemption. If less than all of the Notes with like tenor and terms are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by such method as the Trustee shall deem appropriate.
This Notes will be subject to redemption at the option of the Company, in whole or in part at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of this Note to be redeemed, and (ii) as determined by the Quotation Agent (as defined below), the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on this Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 30 basis points, and accrued but unpaid interest thereon.
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
"" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the trustee obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Quotation Agent
"" means (i) each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (and their respective successors) and three other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are Primary Treasury Dealers specified from time to time by the Company; , that if the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
Notice of any redemption will be-mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to the Holder hereof at its address as such address shall appear in the Security Register of the Company. Unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the principal amount of this Note called for redemption.
If an HDI Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem this Note as described above, the Company will be required to make an offer (the "") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "").
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Within 30 days following any HDI Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any HDI Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes, or would constitute upon consummation thereof, the HDI Change of Control, a notice will be mailed to Holders of the Notes describing the transaction that constitutes, or would constitute upon consummation thereof, the HDI Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the HDI Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the HDI Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Payment Date
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with a Company Officers' Certificate (as defined in the Indenture) stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
The Company will not be required to comply with the obligations relating to repurchasing the Notes if a third party instead satisfies them.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations applicable to the repurchase of the Notes. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
Exchange Act
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following terms will be applicable:
"" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of an HDI Change of Control and (2) public notice of the intention of Harley-Davidson, Inc. ("") to effect an HDI Change of Control (which 60-day period will be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular HDI Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of HDI Change of Control Triggering Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable HDI Change of Control (whether or not the applicable HDI Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
HDI
provided
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of HDI who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of HDI in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
Continuing Director
"" means Fitch Inc.
Fitch
 
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than HDI or one of its subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of HDI or other Voting Stock into which the Voting Stock of HDI is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of HDI and the assets of the subsidiaries of HDI, taken as a whole, to one or more "persons" (as that term is defined in the Indenture), other than HDI or one of its subsidiaries; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of HDI are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to be an HDI Change of Control if (1) HDI becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Voting Stock of HDI immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
HDI Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both an HDI Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
HDI Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's, BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch, and (2) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
The Company can "reopen" a previously issued tranche of Notes and issue additional Notes of such tranche or establish additional terms of such tranche or issue notes with the same terms as previously issued Notes.
The Company may at any time purchase this Note at any price in the open market or otherwise. Notes so purchased by the Company may be held or resold or, at the discretion of the Company, may be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligations of the Company and the Guarantor, which are absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Note, at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
By acceptance of this Note, the Holder hereof agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Indenture. Terms used herein which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Indenture. This Note shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture.
 
, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed, manually or by facsimile by an authorized signatory.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
Dated:
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the
series designated herein and
referred to in the within-mentioned
Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
For value received, undersigned hereby fully, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee contained in Article Fourteen of the Indenture, to the Holder of this Note and to the Trustee, on behalf of the Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and any premium, interest and any Additional Amounts on, this Note, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of this Note and the Indenture. This Guarantee will not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Trustee duly executes the certificate of authentication on the Note upon which this Guarantee is endorsed.
Dated:
 
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto:
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
(Please insert social security or other identifying number of assignee)
 
 
 
 
the within Note, and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the within Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                        
 
SIGNATURE(S) GUARANTEED:
THE SIGNATURE(S) SHOULD BE GUARANTEED BY AN ELIGIBLE GUARANTOR INSTITUTION (BANKS, STOCKBROKERS, SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS AND CREDIT UNIONS WITH MEMBERSHIP IN AN APPROVED SIGNATURE GUARANTEE MEDALLION PROGRAM) PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17Ad-15.
The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made
 
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE) OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (""), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "") OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION, AND, ACCORDINGLY, NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, AND (2) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "") WHICH IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE
SECURITIES ACT
RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE
HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE THEREOF WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY) ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHICH NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN OFFSHORE TRANSACTIONS WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) TO AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF SUBPARAGRAPH (a)(1), (2), (3) OR (7) OF RULE 501 OF REGULATION D UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF SUCH AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR, FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO, OR FOR OFFER OR SALE IN CONNECTION WITH, ANY DISTRIBUTION IN VIOLATION OF THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (F) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (i) PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (E) OR (F) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND (ii) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY BE COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER FROM IT OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH ABOVE.
THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL NOTE, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR DEFINITIVE NOTES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN). NEITHER THE HOLDER NOR THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF THIS REGULATION S TEMPORARY GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE PAYMENT OF INTEREST HEREON.
PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF THE 40-DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD (AS DEFINED IN REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES (AS DEFINED IN REGULATION S) OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, A U.S. PERSON (AS DEFINED IN REGULATION S), UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
 
 
 
Harley-Davidson Financial Services, Inc., a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the Principal Amount specified above, as revised by the Schedule of Increases and Decreases in Global Security attached hereto, on the Maturity Date specified above and to pay to the registered holder of this Note (the "") interest on said Principal Amount at a rate per annum specified above and upon the terms provided below under either the heading "Provisions Applicable to Fixed Rate Notes Only" or "Provisions Applicable to Floating Rate Notes Only."
Company
Holder
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of notes of the Company (herein referred to as the ""), all issued or to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of March 4, 2011 (as may be supplemented from time to time, the ""), among the Company, Harley-Davidson Credit Corp. (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company, the Guarantor and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The Notes of this series are limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture) to the aggregate principal amount established from time to time by the Company Board of Directors. The Notes of this series may be issued at various times with different maturity dates and different principal repayment provisions, may bear interest at different rates and may otherwise vary, all as provided in the Indenture. The Notes of this series may be subject to redemption upon notice and in accordance with the provisions of this Note and the Indenture. The Company and the Guarantor may defease the Notes of this series in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
Notes
Indenture
Guarantor
Trustee
To secure the due and punctual payment of principal, any premium, any interest and Additional Amounts (as defined in the Indenture) on this Note by the Company under the Indenture, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Maturity Date, by
 
declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, the Guarantor has unconditionally guaranteed this Note pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee endorsed hereon and in Section 1401 of the Indenture (the "").
Guarantee
As used herein, the term "" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York; , that if a Specified Currency is specified above, the day is also not a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close in the Principal Financial Center (as defined below) of the country issuing such Specified Currency or, if such Specified Currency is the Euro, the day is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open; that if LIBOR is indicated above to be an applicable Interest Rate Basis, the day is also a London Banking Day (as defined below).
Business Day
provided, however
provided further
"" means, unless otherwise provided in this Note, the capital city of the country issuing the Specified Currency; except that with respect to United States dollars, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, South African rand and Swiss francs, the "Principal Financial Center" will be The City of New York, Sydney and (solely in the case of the Specified Currency) Melbourne, Toronto, Johannesburg and Zurich, respectively.
Principal Financial Center
"" means a day which commercial banks are open for business in London.
London Banking Day
Provisions Applicable To Fixed Rate Notes Only:
If the "Fixed Rate" line above is checked, unless otherwise specified above, the Company will pay interest semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year (each such date fixed for the payment of interest, an "") commencing September 15, 2011, and on the Maturity Date or upon earlier redemption or repayment to the person to whom principal is payable. Interest shall accrue from the Original Issue Date, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for on this Note to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date, or earlier date of redemption or repayment, as the case may be. Interest on Fixed Rate Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Interest Payment Date
If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment) of this Fixed Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment will be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date such payment was due, and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment), as the case may be.
Provisions Applicable To Floating Rate Notes Only:
If the "Floating Rate" line above is checked, the Company will pay interest on the Interest Payment Dates shown specified above at the Initial Interest Rate specified above until the first Interest Reset Date specified above following the Original Issue Date specified above and thereafter at a rate determined in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth under
 
the headings "Determination of CD Rate," "Determination of CMT Rate," "Determination of Commercial Paper Rate," "Determination of Federal Funds Rate," "Determination of LIBOR," "Determination of Prime Rate" or "Determination of Treasury Rate," depending on whether the Interest Rate Basis is the CD Rate, the CMT Rate, the Commercial Paper Rate, the Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR, the Prime Rate, the Treasury Rate or other Interest Rate Basis.
An interest payment shall be the amount of interest accrued from and including the Original Issue Date, or from and including the last Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid, to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date, or date of earlier redemption or repayment, as the case may be (an ""). Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the interest rate hereon shall not be greater than the Maximum Interest Rate, if any, or less than the Minimum Interest Rate, if any, specified above.
Interest Period
If any Interest Payment Date for any Floating Rate Note, other than an Interest Payment Date at maturity, would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be the following day that is a Business Day, and interest will continue to accrue to the following Business Day, except that if LIBOR is the applicable Interest Rate Basis, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date will be the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day. If the Maturity Date (or date of earlier redemption or repayment) of any Floating Rate Note would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of interest and principal (and premium, if any) may be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment).
Commencing with the first Interest Reset Date specified above following the Original Issue Date, the rate at which interest on this Note is payable shall be adjusted daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually as specified above under "Interest Reset Dates."
The interest rate borne by this Note will be determined as follows:
(i) Unless the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as a "Floating Rate/Fixed Rate Note" or an "Inverse Floating Rate Note" or in the event either "Other Provisions" or an Addendum hereto applies, in each case, relating to a different interest rate formula, this Note shall be designated as a "Regular Floating Rate Note" and, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, shall bear interest at the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases (a) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or (b) multiplied by the applicable Spread Multiplier, if any; in each case as specified above. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset as of each Interest Reset Date specified above; , that the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial Interest Rate.
provided, however
(ii) If the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as a "Floating Rate/Fixed Rate Note" then, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, this Note shall bear interest at the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases (a) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or (b) multiplied by the Spread Multiplier, if any, in each case as specified above. Commencing on
 
the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset as of each Interest Reset Date; , , that (y) the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial Interest Rate and (z) the interest rate in effect for the period commencing on, and including, the Fixed Rate Commencement Date specified above to the Maturity Date (or date of earlier redemption or repayment) shall be the Fixed Interest Rate specified above or, if no Fixed Interest Rate is so specified, the interest rate in effect on the day immediately preceding the Fixed Rate Commencement Date.
provided
however
(iii) If the Interest Category of this Note is specified above as an "Inverse Floating Rate Note" then, except as set forth below or specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, this Note shall bear interest at (a) the Fixed Interest Rate specified above minus (b) the rate determined by reference to the applicable Interest Rate Basis or Bases:
(x) plus or minus the applicable Spread, if any, and/or
(y) multiplied by the applicable Spread Multiplier, if any, in each case as specified above;
, , that, unless otherwise specified above under "Other Provisions" or in an Addendum hereto, the interest rate hereon shall not be less than zero. Commencing on the Initial Interest Reset Date, the rate at which interest on this Note shall be payable shall be reset on each Interest Reset Date; , , that the interest rate in effect for the period, if any, from the Original Issue Date to the Initial Interest Reset Date shall be the Initial Interest Rate set forth above.
provided
however
provided
however
The "" is the number of basis points (one basis point equals one-hundredth of a percentage point) specified above to be added to or subtracted from the Interest Rate Basis for a Floating Rate Note, and the "" is the percentage specified above by which the Interest Rate Basis for such Floating Rate Note will be multiplied. Both a Spread and/or a Spread Multiplier may be applicable to the Interest Rate Basis for a particular Floating Rate Note, as set forth above.
Spread
Spread Multiplier
Each such adjusted Interest Rate Basis shall be applicable on and after the Interest Reset Date to which it relates but not including the next succeeding Interest Reset Date. If any Interest Reset Date is a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that if the rate of interest on this Note shall be determined by reference to LIBOR and such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. In addition, if the Treasury Rate is the applicable Interest Rate Basis and the Interest Determination Date would otherwise fall on an Interest Reset Date, then the Interest Reset Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day. Subject to applicable provisions of law (including usury laws) and except as specified in this Note, on each Interest Reset Date, the rate of interest on this Note shall be the rate determined in accordance with the provisions of the applicable heading below.
With respect to a Floating Rate Note, accrued interest shall be calculated by multiplying the principal amount of thereof by an accrued interest factor. Such accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day in the Interest Period or from the
 
last date from which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor for each such day is computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to such day by 360, in the cases of CD Rate Notes, Commercial Paper Rate Notes, Federal Funds Rate Notes, LIBOR Notes and Prime Rate Notes or by the number of days in the year, in the cases of CMT Rate Notes and Treasury Rate Notes. The interest rate applicable to any day that is an Interest Reset Date will be the interest rate effective on such Interest Reset Date. The interest rate applicable to any other day will be the interest rate for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Date (or, if none, the Initial Interest Rate, as specified above).
The "," where applicable, pertaining to an Interest Determination Date will be the earlier of (i) the tenth calendar day after such Interest Determination Date or, if any such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day or (ii) the Business Day preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or the date of earlier redemption or repayment), as the case may be.
Calculation Date
For Floating Rate Notes, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. shall be the calculation agent unless another calculation agent is specified above (the ""). The interest rate applicable to each interest period will be determined by the Calculation Agent on or prior to the applicable Calculation Date. At the request of the Holder, the Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate which will become effective on the next Interest Reset Date.
Calculation Agent
All percentages resulting from any calculation of the rate of interest on a Floating Rate Note will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percent (.0000001), with five one-millionths of a percentage point rounded upward, and all dollar amounts used in or resulting from such calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest cent (with one-half cent being rounded upward).
If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the CD Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity specified above as published in H.15(519) (as defined below) on such CD Interest Determination Date under the heading "CDs (secondary market)." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the CD Rate shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit of the Index Maturity specified above as published in H.15 Daily Update (as defined below), or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "CDs (secondary market)." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the CD Rate shall be the rate on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent on the Notes as the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date, of three leading non-bank dealers in negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit in The City of New York selected by the Calculation Agent for negotiable United States dollar certificates of deposit
Determination of CD Rate.
CD Rate
CD Interest Determination Date
 
of major United States money market banks with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above in an amount that is representative for a single transaction in that market at that time. If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent as provided in the preceding sentence are not quoting as mentioned in such sentence, the CD Rate shall be the CD Rate in effect on the applicable CD Interest Determination Date.
"" means the weekly statistical release designated as H.15(519), or any successor publication, published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
H.15(519)
"" means the daily update of H.15(519), available through the world-wide-web site of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System at http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/update, or any successor site or publication.
H.15 Daily Update
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the CMT Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be (i) if "CMT Reuters Page FRBCMT" is specified above, the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as the yield is displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service), on page FRBCMT (or any other page as may replace the specified page on that service under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities")(""). If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear on Reuters Page FRBCMT, the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, and for the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities." In the event the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear in H.15(519), then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date for the period of the Index Maturity specified above, as may then be published by either the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or the United States Department of the Treasury that the Calculation Agent determines to be comparable to the rate which would otherwise have been published in H.15(519). In the event the rate referred to in the preceding sentence is not published, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three leading primary United States government securities dealers in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates (each a ""), selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest), and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the Index Maturity specified above, a remaining term to maturity no more than one year shorter than the Index Maturity specified above and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two of the prices referred to in the above sentence are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based
Determination of CMT Rate
CMT Rate
CMT Interest Determination Date
Reuters Page FRBCMT
Reference Dealer
 
on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations shall be eliminated; , , that if fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation or, in the event of equality, one of the highest and the lowest quotation or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest, for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above, and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. However, if fewer than five but more than two prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations will be eliminated. If fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be the CMT Rate in effect on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date and (ii) if the CMT Reuters Page FEDCMT is specified above, the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified above, and will be the average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as the yield is displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service) on page FEDCMT (or any other page as may replace that specified page on that service)(""), for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which the related CMT Interest Determination Date falls. If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear on Reuters Page FEDCMT, then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be a percentage equal to the one-week or one-month, as specified above, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, and for the week or month, as applicable, preceding the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) opposite the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities." If the rate referred to in the preceding sentence does not appear in H.15(519), then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be the one-week or one-month, as specified above, average yield for United States Treasury securities at "constant maturity" having the Index Maturity specified above, as otherwise announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the week or month, as applicable, ended immediately preceding the week or month, as applicable, in which the related CMT Interest Determination Date falls. If the Federal Reserve Bank of New York does not publish the rate referred to above, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the highest), and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity equal to the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity no more than one year shorter than the Index Maturity specified above, and in a principal amount that is
provided
however
Reuters Page FEDCMT
 
representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two of the prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations shall be eliminated. If fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date will be calculated by the Calculation Agent as a yield to maturity based on the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid prices as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date of three Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent (from five Reference Dealers selected by the Calculation Agent and eliminating the highest quotation or (in the event of equality, one of the highest) and the lowest quotation (or, in the event of equality, one of the lowest)), for United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity specified above, and a remaining term to maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above and will be in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the securities in the market at that time. If fewer than five but more than two prices referred to above are provided as requested, the rate will be calculated by the Calculation Agent based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of the quotations will be eliminated, or if fewer than three prices referred to above are provided as requested, the CMT Rate will be the CMT Rate in effect on the applicable CMT Interest Determination Date. If two United States Treasury securities with an original maturity greater than the Index Maturity as specified above have remaining terms to maturity equally close to the Index Maturity specified above, the quotes for the United States Treasury security with the shorter original remaining term to maturity will be used.
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the Commercial Paper Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Commercial Paper Rate" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the Money Market Yield (as defined below) on such date of the rate for commercial paper having the Index Maturity as indicated above, as such rate shall be published in H.15(519) under the caption "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial." In the event that such rate is not published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, then the Commercial Paper Rate shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Money Market Yield of the Commercial Paper Rate on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity specified above, published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial." If by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, such rate is not yet published as provided in the preceding sentence, then the Commercial Paper Rate on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date of three leading dealers of United States dollar commercial paper in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent for commercial paper having the Index Maturity specified above, placed for industrial issuers whose bond rating is "Aa," or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization; , , that if the dealers
Determination of Commercial Paper Rate
Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date
provided
however
 
selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting offered rates as mentioned in this sentence, the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Commercial Paper Rate in effect on the applicable Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date.
"" shall be a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula and expressed as a percentage:
Money Market Yield
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal; and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to the Federal Funds Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Federal Funds Rate" with respect to each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the first Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate on that date for United States dollar Federal Funds as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Federal Funds (Effective)," as displayed on Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service) on page FEDFUND01 (or any other page as may replace the applicable page on that service)("") or, if such rate does not appear on Reuters Page FEDFUND01, or is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the rate on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date for United States dollar Federal Funds will be the rate on such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "Federal Funds (Effective)." If such rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate will be calculated by the Calculation Agent and will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight United States dollar Federal Funds arranged by three leading brokers of United States dollar Federal Funds transactions in The City of New York, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent before 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date; , , that if the brokers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Federal Funds Rate will be the Federal Funds Rate in effect on the applicable Federal Funds Interest Determination Date.
Determination of Federal Funds Rate
Federal Funds Interest Determination Date
Reuters Page FEDFUND 01
provided
however
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, LIBOR, unless otherwise specified above, "LIBOR" for each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the second London Banking Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate (express as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars having a three-month maturity that appears on Reuters LIBOR01 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date, or if Reuters LIBOR01 is not available on such date, the Calculation Agent will obtain such rate from Bloomberg's page "BBAM." If such rate does not appear on Reuters LIBOR01 or Bloomberg's page "BBAM" on such LIBOR Interest
Determination of LIBOR
LIBOR Interest Determination Date
 
Determination Date at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of four major banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide a quotation of the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) offered by it to prime banks in the London interbank market for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars in a principal amount of at least $1,000,000 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date. If at least two such offered quotations are so provided, LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two such quotations are so provided, the Calculation Agent will request each of three major banks in New York City, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide a quotation of the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum), offered by it for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks having a three-month maturity in a principal amount of at least $1,000,000 at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date. If at least two such rates are so provided, LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the arithmetic mean of such rates. If fewer than two such rates are so provided, then LIBOR determined on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent will be the rate in effect on the applicable LIBOR Interest Determination Date.
"" means the Capital Markets Report Screen LIBOR01 of Reuters, Inc. (or any successor service or page), for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates of major banks for U.S. dollars.
Reuters LIBOR01
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to, the Prime Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Prime Rate" with respect to each Interest Reset Date will be determined by the Calculation Agent as of the first Business Day prior to such Interest Reset Date (a "") and shall be the rate set forth on such date as published in H.15(519) under the caption "Bank Prime Loan," or if not so published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Prime Interest Determination Date, then the Prime Rate. will be as published in H.15 Daily Update, or such other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate under the caption "Bank Prime Loan," or if not so published prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Prime Interest Determination Date, then the Prime Rate will be determined by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank that appears on the Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page (as defined below) as the particular bank's prime rate or base lending rate as of 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date. If fewer than four such rates are so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date as shown on the Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page for the Prime Interest Determination Date, the Prime Rate will be determined by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base lending rates quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by a 360-day year as of the close of business on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date by three major banks, which may include an agent of the Company or such agent's affiliates, in The City of New York selected by the Calculation Agent. However, if the banks selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in the preceding sentence, the Prime Rate will be the Prime Rate in effect on the applicable Prime Interest Determination Date.
Determination of Prime Rate
Prime Interest Determination Date
 
"" means the display on the Reuter Money 3000 Service or any successor service on the "US PRIME 1 Page" or other page as may replace US PRIME 1 Page on that service for the purpose of displaying prime rates or base lending rates of major United States banks).
Reuters Screen US PRIME 1 Page
. If the Interest Rate Basis, as specified above, is, or is calculated by reference to the Treasury Rate, unless otherwise specified above, the "Treasury Rate" for each Interest Reset Date will be the rate from the auction held on the applicable Interest Determination Date (the "") of direct obligations of the United States ("") having the Index Maturity, as specified above, as published under the caption "Investment Rate" on the display on Reuters, Inc. or any successor service on page USAUCTION 10 or any other page as may replace page USAUCTION 10 on that service ("") or page USAUCTION 11 on that service (""), or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date (as defined below), the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate for the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Auction High," or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate of the applicable Treasury Bills announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or, if the rate is not announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or if the Auction is not held, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date of Treasury Bills having the Index Maturity specified above, published in H.15(519) under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market," or, if the rate is not so published by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date pertaining to such Treasury Rate Determination Date, the rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market." In the event that the results of the auction of Treasury Bills having the applicable Index Maturity specified above are not published or reported, as provided above, by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Calculation Date or if no such auction is held on such Treasury Rate Determination Date, then the Treasury Rate on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent and shall be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date, of three primary United States government securities dealers, which may include the agent or its affiliates, selected by the Calculation Agent, for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified above; , , that if the dealers selected as aforesaid by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, the Treasury Rate will be the Treasury Rate in effect on the applicable Treasury Rate Determination Date.
Determination of Treasury Rate
Auction
Treasury Bills
Reuters Page USAUCTION 10
Reuters Page USAUCTION 11
provided
however
The "" for any Interest Reset Date will be the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls on which Treasury Bills would normally be auctioned. Treasury Bills are normally sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is normally held on the following Tuesday, except
Treasury Rate Determination Date
 
such auction may be held on the preceding Friday. If, as the result of a legal holiday, an auction is so held on the preceding Friday, such Friday will be the Treasury Rate Determination Date pertaining to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next succeeding week.
"" means a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula and expressed as a percentage:
Bond Equivalent Yield
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal; "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
Provisions Applicable To Both Fixed Rate Notes And Floating Rate Notes:
The interest so payable on any Interest Payment Date will, subject to certain exceptions in the Indenture hereinafter referred to, be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date (as defined below) immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date or, if the Interest Payment Date is the Maturity Date or the date of earlier redemption or repayment, to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Maturity Date or such earlier date of redemption or repayment; , , that if the Original Issue Date is between a Regular Record Date and an Interest Payment Date or on an Interest Payment Date, interest for the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the Interest Payment Date relating to such Regular Record Date shall be paid on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date to the person in whose name this Note is registered on the close of business on the Regular Record Date preceding such Interest Payment Date. If this Note bears interest at a Fixed Rate, as specified above, unless otherwise specified above, the "" with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be the first day of March and September preceding such Interest Payment Date, whether or not such date shall be a Business Day. If this Note bears interest at a Floating Rate, as specified above, the ."Regular Record Date" with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be the fifteenth calendar day next preceding such Interest Payment Date, whether or not such date shall be a Business Day.
provided
however
Regular Record Date
Payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note due on the Maturity Date or any earlier redemption or repayment date will be made in immediately available funds upon presentation and surrender of this Note; , , that if a Specified Currency is specified above and such payment is to be made in such Specified Currency in accordance with the provisions set forth below, such payment will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account with a bank designated by the Holder hereof at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date or such earlier redemption or repayment date, as the case may be, provided that such bank has appropriate facilities therefor and that this Note is presented and surrendered at the Place of Payment specified above in time for the Trustee to make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payment of interest due on any Interest Payment Date, other than the Maturity Date or any earlier redemption or repayment date, will be made at the Place of Payment specified above.
provided
however
 
Whenever in this Note or in the Indenture there is a reference, in any context, to the payment of the principal of, or interest, if any, on, or in respect of, the Notes, such payment shall be deemed to include the payment of Additional Amounts to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect of such payment pursuant to the provisions hereof or thereof and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provision hereof or thereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
The Company is obligated to make payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note in United States dollars or, if a Specified Currency is indicated above, in such Specified Currency (or, if such Specified Currency is not at the time of such payment legal tender for the payment of public and private debts of the country issuing such currency or, in the case of the Euro, in the member states of the European Union that have adopted the single currency in accordance with the Treaty Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union, such other currency which is then such legal tender in such country or in the adopting member states of the European Union, as the case may be). If a Specified Currency is specified above, except as otherwise provided below, any such amounts so payable by the Company will be converted by a New York clearing house bank designated by the Company (the "") into United States dollars for payment to the Holder of this Note.
Exchange Rate Agent
If a Specified Currency is specified above, the Holder of this Note may elect to receive any amount payable hereunder in such Specified Currency. If the Holder of this Note shall not have duly made an election to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency, any United States dollar amount to be received by the Holder of this Note will be based on the highest bid quotation in The City of New York received by the Exchange Rate Agent at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the applicable payment date from three recognized foreign exchange dealers (one of whom may be the Exchange Rate Agent) selected by the Exchange Rate Agent and approved by the Company for the purchase by the quoting dealer of the Specified Currency for United States dollars for settlement on such payment date in the aggregate amount of the Specified Currency payable to all Holders of Notes scheduled to receive United States dollar payments and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract. All currency exchange costs will be borne by the Holder of this Note by deductions from such payments. If three such bid quotations are not available, payments on this Note will be made in the Specified Currency.
If a Specified Currency is specified above, the Holder of this Note may elect to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency by submitting a written request for such payment to the Trustee at the Place of Payment specified above on or prior to the applicable Record Date or at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption or repayment date), as the case may be. Such written request may be mailed or hand delivered or sent by facsimile transmission. The Holder of this Note may elect to receive all or a specified portion of all future payments in the Specified Currency in respect of such principal, premium, if any, and/or interest and need not file a separate election for each payment. Such election will remain in effect until revoked by written notice to the Trustee, but written notice of any such revocation must be received by the Trustee on or prior to the applicable Record Date or at least 15 calendar days prior to the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption or repayment date), as the case may be.
 
If a Specified Currency is specified above and the Holder of this Note shall have duly made an election to receive all or a specified portion of any payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest in respect of this Note in such Specified Currency, but such Specified Currency is not available for such payment due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to the Holder of this Note by making such payment in United States dollars on the basis of the Market Exchange Rate (as defined below) determined by the Exchange Rate Agent on the second Business Day prior to such payment date or, if such Market Exchange Rate is not then available, on the basis of the most recently available Market Exchange Rate on or before the date on which such payment is due. The "" for the Specified Currency means the noon dollar buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers of the Specified Currency as certified for customs purposes (or, if not so certified, as otherwise determined) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Any payment made in United States dollars under such circumstances shall not constitute an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture).
Market Exchange Rate
All determinations referred to above made by the Exchange Rate Agent shall be at its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this Note.
In case an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount (or, if the Note is an Original Issue Discount Note, such lesser portion of the principal amount as may be applicable) of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable, and, with respect to certain Events of Default, shall automatically become due and payable, in each case in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. If this Note is an Original Issue Discount Note, in the event of an acceleration of the Maturity Date hereof, the amount payable to the Holder of this Note upon such acceleration will be determined by this Note but will be an amount less than the amount payable at the Maturity Date of this Note.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Guarantor and the rights of the Holders of the Securities (as defined in the Indenture) of each series to be affected by such modification under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Guarantor with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities (as defined in the Indenture) of each series to be affected by such modification. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company and the Guarantor with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.
This Note is issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof or other Authorized Denomination specified above.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered in the Security Register of this series upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the Place of Payment specified above, duly endorsed by or accompanied by, a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee, duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon a new Note or Notes of this series of Authorized Denomination and for the same aggregate principal amount, with the Guarantee endorsed thereon, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Trustee, and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered in the Security Register as the owner of this Note for all purposes (other than for the determination of any Additional Amounts payable) and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
If so specified above, this Note will be redeemable at the Company's option on the date or dates specified prior to the Maturity Date at a price or prices, each as specified above, together with accrued interest to the date of redemption. This Note will not be subject to any sinking fund. If so redeemable, the Company may redeem this Note either in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30, nor more than 60, days' notice before the date of redemption. If less than all of the Notes with like tenor and terms are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by such method as the Trustee shall deem appropriate.
This Notes will be subject to redemption at the option of the Company, in whole or in part at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of this Note to be redeemed, and (ii) as determined by the Quotation Agent (as defined below), the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on this Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 30 basis points, and accrued but unpaid interest thereon.
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
"" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the trustee obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Quotation Agent
"" means (i) each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (and their respective successors) and three other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are Primary Treasury Dealers specified from time to time by the Company; , that if the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
Notice of any redemption will be-mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to the Holder hereof at its address as such address shall appear in the Security Register of the Company. Unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the principal amount of this Note called for redemption.
If an HDI Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem this Note as described above, the Company will be required to make an offer (the "") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "").
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Within 30 days following any HDI Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any HDI Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes, or would constitute upon consummation thereof, the HDI Change of Control, a notice will be mailed to Holders of the Notes describing the transaction that constitutes, or would constitute upon consummation thereof, the HDI Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the HDI Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the HDI Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Payment Date
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with a Company Officers' Certificate (as defined in the Indenture) stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
The Company will not be required to comply with the obligations relating to repurchasing the Notes if a third party instead satisfies them.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations applicable to the repurchase of the Notes. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
Exchange Act
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following terms will be applicable:
"" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of an HDI Change of Control and (2) public notice of the intention of Harley-Davidson, Inc. ("") to effect an HDI Change of Control (which 60-day period will be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular HDI Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of HDI Change of Control Triggering Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable HDI Change of Control (whether or not the applicable HDI Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
HDI
provided
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of HDI who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of HDI in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
Continuing Director
"" means Fitch Inc.
Fitch
 
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than HDI or one of its subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of HDI or other Voting Stock into which the Voting Stock of HDI is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of HDI and the assets of the subsidiaries of HDI, taken as a whole, to one or more "persons" (as that term is defined in the Indenture), other than HDI or one of its subsidiaries; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of HDI are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to be an HDI Change of Control if (1) HDI becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Voting Stock of HDI immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
HDI Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both an HDI Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
HDI Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's, BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch, and (2) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
The Company can "reopen" a previously issued tranche of Notes and issue additional Notes of such tranche or establish additional terms of such tranche or issue notes with the same terms as previously issued Notes.
The Company may at any time purchase this Note at any price in the open market or otherwise. Notes so purchased by the Company may be held or resold or, at the discretion of the Company, may be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligations of the Company and the Guarantor, which are absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Note, at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
By acceptance of this Note, the Holder hereof agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Indenture. Terms used herein which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Indenture. This Note shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture.
 
, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed, manually or by facsimile by an authorized signatory.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
Dated:
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the
series designated herein and
referred to in the within-mentioned
Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
as Trustee
 
For value received, undersigned hereby fully, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee contained in Article Fourteen of the Indenture, to the Holder of this Note and to the Trustee, on behalf of the Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and any premium, interest and any Additional Amounts on, this Note, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of this Note and the Indenture. This Guarantee will not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Trustee duly executes the certificate of authentication on the Note upon which this Guarantee is endorsed.
Dated:
 
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto:
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
(Please insert social security or other identifying number of assignee)
 
 
 
 
the within Note, and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the within Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                        
 
SIGNATURE(S) GUARANTEED:
THE SIGNATURE(S) SHOULD BE GUARANTEED BY AN ELIGIBLE GUARANTOR INSTITUTION (BANKS, STOCKBROKERS, SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS AND CREDIT UNIONS WITH MEMBERSHIP IN AN APPROVED SIGNATURE GUARANTEE MEDALLION PROGRAM) PURSUANT TO SEC RULE 17Ad-15.
The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made
 


