Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including the discussion of economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2007 for the Company and or each of our segments. These sections and other parts of this report (including this Item 1A) contain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. They are based on managements assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward looking statements. We do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward looking statements. Our forward looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near and long term. These forward looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this Form 10 K, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. Risk Factors Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. The operating results of our segments are impacted by general industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our manufacturing costs. The operating results of our Aerospace segment, which generated 35 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2006, are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production and or the retirement of older aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as the level and mix of U.S. Government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed in other risk factors below). The challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns, and changes in regulations. Future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our Aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. The operating results of our Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) segment, which generated 35 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2006, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, and material price inflation. Specialty Materials operating results, which generated 15 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2006, are impacted by global gross domestic product and capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining and petrochemical plants. Transportation Systems operating results, which generated 15 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2006, are impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and consumer spending for automotive aftermarket and car care products. 10 Raw material price fluctuations and the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements can increase the cost of our products and services and impact our ability to meet commitments to customers. The cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our Specialty Materials (fluorspar, benzene (the key component in phenol) and natural gas), Transportation Systems (nickel and steel) and Aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, long term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. We also depend in limited instances on sole source suppliers. Our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their non performance. The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes or governmental actions. Our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. Our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, and (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost effectively. Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. These development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. Protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. We own or are licensed under a large number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. In some non U.S. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. Any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. An increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. Our international operations, including U.S. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results and our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as China, India and the Middle East. In 2006, 48 percent of our total sales 11 (including products manufactured in the U.S. and in international locations) were outside of the U.S. including 28 percent in Europe and 10 percent in Asia. Risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import and trade restrictions (including embargoes), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff in these regions. The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. As we continue to grow our businesses internationally, our operating results could be effected by the relative strength of the European and Asian economies and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. We do have a policy to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, but such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us and may not be successful in eliminating such volatility. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long lived assets. At December 31, 2006, the net carrying value of long lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) totaled approximately $14.5 billion. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our long lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long lived assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners equity and increase our debt to total capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our access to the public debt and equity markets. A change in the level of U.S. Government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact sales of Aerospaces defense and space related product and services. Sales of our defense and space related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. Sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the U. S. Department of Defense comprised approximately 27 and 10 percent of Aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006. Although U.S. defense spending increased in 2006 and is expected to increase again in 2007, we cannot predict the extent to which funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2008 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by Congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and or the nature of war related activity on existing, follow on or replacement programs. A shift in defense spending to programs in which we do not participate and or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. As a supplier of military and other equipment to the U. S. Government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. In addition to normal business risks, companies like Honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislations and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense competition for U.S. Government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the 12 industry. Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to audits. Like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts to comply with various government regulations. We have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in appropriate cases and may do so in the future. U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for additional costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from any other source and any other damages suffered by the government. We are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. If Honeywell or one of its businesses were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. The U.S. Government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years. Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. The sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. Safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the Federal Aviation Administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact Aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. The demand for and cost of providing Automation and Control Solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care and energy efficiency standards and regulations. Specialty Materials results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our Transportation Systems segment. Completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned. We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non core businesses. We may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into Honeywell on schedule and or to achieve synergies within the plan and timeframe, and or (iv) the inability to dispose of non core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected time frame. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, and environmental, health and safety matters. Resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the 13 impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. The incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. Our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. Mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. We have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing toxic substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, or the imposition of new clean up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our expenses include significant costs related to employee health and retiree health and income benefits. With approximately 118,000 employees, including 56,000 in the U.S, our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and income benefits are significant. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. Continued increasing health care costs, and changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health and income benefit expenses, may affect our future profitability. Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. In 2006, our tax expense represented 25.7 percent of our income before tax, and includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company that could effect the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable Item 2. Properties We have approximately 1,300 locations consisting of plants, research laboratories, sales offices and other facilities. Our headquarters and administrative complex is located at Morris Township, New Jersey. Our plants are generally located to serve large marketing areas and to provide accessibility to raw materials 14 and labor pools. Our properties are generally maintained in good operating condition. Utilization of these plants may vary with sales to customers and other business conditions; however, no major operating facility is significantly idle. We own or lease warehouses, railroad cars, barges, automobiles, trucks, airplanes and materials handling and data processing equipment. We also lease space for administrative and sales staffs. Our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. We do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. Our principal plants, which are owned in fee unless otherwise indicated, are as follows: Aerospace Anniston, AL Glendale, AZ Phoenix, AZ Tempe, AZ Tucson, AZ Torrance, CA (partially leased) Clearwater, FL South Bend, IN Olathe, KS Minneapolis, MN Plymouth, MN Rocky Mount, NC Teterboro, NJ Albuquerque, NM Urbana, OH Greer, SC Redmond, WA (leased) Toronto, Canada Raunheim, Germany Singapore Yeovil, UK Automation and Control Solutions Phoenix, AZ San Diego, CA (leased) Northford, CT Freeport, IL Golden Valley, MN Murfreesboro, TN (leased) Pleasant Prairie, WI (leased) Neuss, Germany Chihuahua, Mexico Juarez, Mexico (partially leased) Tijuana, Mexico (leased) Emmen, Netherlands Newhouse, Scotland Specialty Materials Mobile, AL Metropolis, IL Baton Rouge, LA Geismar, LA Pottsville, PA Orange, TX Chesterfield, VA Colonial Heights, VA Hopewell, VA Spokane, WA Seelze, Germany Chonburi, Thailand Transportation Systems Stratford, Canada Thaon Les Vosges, France Glinde, Germany Atessa, Italy Ansan, Korea (leased) Mexicali, Mexico Bucharest, Romania Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial amounts) arising out of the conduct of our business. See a discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters in Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Honeywell International Inc. (Honeywell) for the three years ended December 31, 2006. All references to Notes relate to Notes to the Financial Statements in Item 8&mdash;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Sales 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 31,367 $ 27,652 $ 25,593 % change compared with prior year 13 % 8 % The change in net sales in 2006 and 2005 is attributable to the following: 2006 Versus 2005 2005 Versus 2004 Acquisitions 7 % 5 % Divestitures (1 ) (2 ) Price 1 1 Volume 6 4 Foreign Exchange &mdash; &mdash; 13 % 8 % A discussion of net sales by reportable segment can be found in the Review of Business Segments section of this MD&A. 20 Cost of Products and Services Sold 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Cost of products and services sold $ 24,096 $ 21,524 $ 20,752 Gross margin % 23.2 % 22.2 % 18.9 % Gross margin increased by 1 percentage point in 2006 compared with 2005 due primarily to higher margins in our Specialty Materials segment following our acquisition of full ownership of UOP (1.3 percentage points), and lower pension and other postretirement benefits expense of 0.5 percentage points, partially offset by higher repositioning costs of 0.2 percentage points. Gross margin increased by 3.3 percentage points in 2005 compared with 2004 primarily due to an increase of 1.2 percentage points in gross margin for our reportable segments, lower repositioning and other charges of 0.8 percentage points and lower pension and other postretirement benefits expense of 0.5 percentage points. For further discussion of segment results, see Review of Business Segments. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 4,210 $ 3,707 $ 3,316 Percent of sales 13.4 % 13.4 % 13.0 % Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales was flat in 2006 compared with 2005 due primarily to a reduction in expenses in our Aerospace segment, which reflects the benefit of prior restructuring actions, offsetting higher expenses in Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) and Specialty Materials as a result of acquisitions. A reduction of repositioning and pension costs of 0.2 percentage points offset the 0.2 percentage point increase for expenses of $77 million relating to stock based compensation expense following the adoption of FAS No. 123R (see Note 20, Stock Based Compensation Plans). Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales increased by 0.4 percentage points in 2005 compared with 2004 due primarily to the impact of the acquisition of NOVAR and higher spending for information technology systems (primarily ERP system in Aerospace) of 0.3 percentage points and higher repositioning and other charges of 0.1 percentage points. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Pension expense $ 313 $ 404 $ 412 Other postretirement benefits expense 146 157 216 Total pension and other postretirement benefits expense (included in costs of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses) $ 459 $ 561 $ 628 Pension expense decreased by 23 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 due principally to a decrease in the amortization of net losses, principally in our U.S. plans. Pension expense decreased by 2 percent in 2005 compared with 2004 due principally to a decrease in the amortization of net losses partially offset by pension expense for NOVAR, which was acquired in 2005. Other postretirement benefits expense decreased by 7 percent in 2006 compared to 2005, due primarily to favorable demographic experience in the plan, and by 27 percent in 2005 compared with 2004, due primarily to the effect of implementing the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. See Note 22 to the financial statements for further discussion. 21 Other (Income)/Expense 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Gain on sale of non strategic businesses and assets $ (30 ) $ (36 ) $ (255 ) Equity (income)/loss of affiliated companies (13 ) (134 ) (82 ) Interest income (94 ) (84 ) (100 ) Foreign exchange 18 21 28 Other (net) 8 2 (20 ) Total $ (111 ) $ (231 ) $ (429 ) Other income decreased by $120 million, or 52 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $121 million reduction in equity income of affiliated companies primarily related to UOP, following our acquisition of full ownership of UOP in November 2005. In 2005, other income decreased by $198 million compared to 2004, or 46 percent compared to 2004 primarily as a result of pretax gains on the sales of our Security Monitoring and VCSEL Optical Products businesses of $215 and $36 million, respectively, and recognition of a gain of $27 million related to the favorable settlement of a patent infringement lawsuit. Interest and Other Financial Charges 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Interest and other financial charges $ 374 $ 356 $ 331 % change compared with prior year 5 % 8 % Interest and other financial charges increased by 5 percent in 2006 compared with 2005 due to higher debt balances and higher borrowing costs, and increased by 8 percent in 2005 compared with 2004 due to both higher average short term debt outstanding and higher interest rates in 2005. Tax Expense 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Tax expense $ 720 $ 732 $ 377 Effective tax rate 25.7 % 31.9 % 23.2 % The effective tax rate decreased by 6.2 percentage points in 2006 compared with 2005, due principally to the absence of the 2005 one time tax charge of $155 million for the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, offset, in part, by $64 million of tax benefits associated with the 2005 sale of our Industrial Wax business which had a higher tax basis than book basis. In addition, in 2006, there were benefits recognized from the favorable resolution of certain tax audits offset by a tax charge for an up front licensing of certain in process research and development. The effective tax rate was lower than the statutory rate of 35 percent due in part to tax benefits derived from export sales, lower foreign taxes, and benefits from tax planning strategies. The effective tax rate increased by 8.7 percentage points in 2005 compared with 2004 due principally to the tax impact of the repatriation of approximately $2.7 billion of foreign earnings, of which $2.2 billion was subject to a significantly reduced tax under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, offset in part by the higher effective tax benefit rate for repositioning and other charges that were incurred in 2004. See Note 6 to the financial statements for further information on taxes including a detailed effective tax rate reconciliation. In 2007, the effective tax rate could change based upon the Companys operating results and the outcome of tax positions taken regarding previously filed tax returns currently under audit by various Federal, State and foreign tax authorities, several of which may be finalized in the foreseeable future. The Company believes that it has adequate reserves for these matters, the outcome of which could materially impact the results of operations and operating cash flows in the period that they are resolved. 22 Income From Continuing Operations 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Income from continuing operations $ 2,078 $ 1,564 $ 1,246 Earnings per share of common stock&mdash;assuming dilution $ 2.51 $ 1.84 $ 1.45 The increase of $0.67 in earnings (diluted) per share for continuing operations in 2006 compared with 2005 primarily relates to an increase in segment profit in Aerospace and Automation and Control Solutions and income generated from our acquisition of full ownership of UOP in Specialty Materials, reduced repositioning and pension costs and a reduction in the number of shares outstanding due to the previously announced stock repurchase program, offset by the impact of adopting FAS No. 123R (Share Based Payment) for stock based compensation expense of $77 million in 2006. In addition, in 2005 there was a one time tax charge of $155 million for the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which decreased earnings and earnings per share in 2005. The increase of $0.39 earnings (diluted) per share for continuing operations in 2005 compared with 2004 relates primarily to an increase in segment profit for our reportable segments. For further discussion of segment results, see Review of Business Segments. Income From Discontinued Operations Income from discontinued operations of $5 million, or $0.01 earnings per share (diluted) in 2006 relates to the operating results of the Indalex business which was sold in February 2006 to Sun Capital Partners, Inc. Income from discontinued operations of $95 million, or $0.11 earnings per share, in 2005 relates to the operating results of the Indalex and Security Printing businesses, that were part of our NOVAR acquisition that were subsequently divested. In December 2005, the Security Printing business was sold to M&F Worldwide Corp. See Note 2 to the financial statements for further discussion of these sales. BUSINESS OVERVIEW This Business Overview provides a summary of Honeywells four reportable operating segments (Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions, Specialty Materials and Transportation Systems), including how they generate income, the relevant economic and other factors impacting their results, a discussion of each segments results for the three years ended December 31, 2006 and the areas of focus for 2007 for the Company and each of its operating segments. Each of these segments is comprised of various product and service classes that serve multiple end markets. See Note 23 to the financial statements for further information on our reportable segments and our definition of segment profit. Areas of Focus for 2007 The areas of focus for 2007, which are generally applicable to each of our operating segments, include: &bull; Driving profitable growth by building innovative products that address customer needs; &bull; Achieving sales growth, technological excellence and manufacturing capability through global expansion, especially focused on emerging regions in China, India and the Middle East; &bull; Continuing to grow through disciplined acquisition and rigorous integration processes; &bull; Proactively managing raw material cost increases with formula price agreements, price increases and hedging activities, where feasible; &bull; Driving free cash flow through increased net income and effective working capital management enabling continued investment in our businesses, strategic acquisitions, returning value to shareholders through share repurchases and increased dividend payments; &bull; Utilizing our enablers Honeywell Operating System (HOS), Functional Transformation and Velocity Product Development (VPD) to standardize the way we work, increase quality and reduce the costs of product manufacturing, reduce costs and enhance the quality of our 23 administrative functions and improve business operations through investments in systems and process improvements; and &bull; Managing Corporate costs, including costs incurred for asbestos and environmental matters, pension and other post retirement expenses and our tax expense. Review of Business Segments 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Net Sales Aerospace $ 11,124 $ 10,496 $ 9,740 Automation and Control Solutions 11,020 9,416 8,031 Specialty Materials 4,631 3,234 3,497 Transportation Systems 4,592 4,505 4,323 Corporate &mdash; 1 2 $ 31,367 $ 27,652 $ 25,593 Segment Profit Aerospace $ 1,892 $ 1,676 $ 1,422 Automation and Control Solutions 1,223 1,065 894 Specialty Materials 568 257 184 Transportation Systems 574 557 575 Corporate (177 ) (173 ) (158 ) $ 4,080 $ 3,382 $ 2,917 A reconciliation of segment profit to income from continuing operations before taxes follows: 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Segment profit $ 4,080 $ 3,382 $ 2,917 Other income (expense) 111 231 429 Interest and other financial charges (374 ) (356 ) (331 ) Stock option expense(1) (77 ) &mdash; &mdash; Pension and other postretirement benefits (expense)(1) (459 ) (561 ) (628 ) Repositioning and other charges(1) (483 ) (400 ) (764 ) Income from continuing operations before taxes $ 2,798 $ 2,296 $ 1,623 (1) Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses. Aerospace Overview Aerospace is a leading global supplier of aircraft engines, avionics, and related products and services for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, aircraft operators, military services, and defense and space contractors. Our Aerospace products and services include auxiliary power units, propulsion engines, environmental control systems, engine controls, flight safety, communications, navigation, radar and surveillance systems, aircraft lighting, management and technical services, advanced systems and instruments, aircraft wheels and brakes and repair and overhaul services. Aerospace sells its products to original equipment (OE) manufacturers in the air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft segments, and provides spare parts and repair and maintenance services for the aftermarket (principally to aircraft operators). The United States Government is also a major customer for our defense and space products. 24 Economic and Other Factors Aerospace operating results are principally driven by: &bull; Global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production, as well as the demand for spare parts and maintenance and repair services for aircraft currently in use; &bull; Aircraft production by commercial air transport, regional jet, business and general aviation OE manufacturers, as well as global flying hours and airline profitability; &bull; The level and mix of U.S. Government appropriations for defense and space programs and military activity; and &bull; Pricing, volatility in pricing and availability of raw materials. Results of Operations 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 11,124 $ 10,496 $ 9,740 % change compared with prior year 6 % 8 % Segment profit $ 1,892 $ 1,676 $ 1,422 % change compared with prior year 13 % 18 % Aerospace sales increased by 6 percent and 8 percent in 2006 and 2005, respectively, due primarily to strong growth in new aircraft deliveries and increased global flying hours. Aerospace sales by major customer end markets were as follows: % of Aerospace Sales % Change in Sales Customer End Markets 2006 2005 2004 2006 Versus 2005 2005 Versus 2004 Commercial: Air transport and regional original equipment 16 % 15 % 15 % 14 % 9 % Air transport and regional aftermarket 22 23 24 4 3 Business and general aviation original equipment 12 11 8 16 42 Business and general aviation aftermarket 10 10 10 1 10 Defense and Space 40 41 43 3 2 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 6 % 8 % Details regarding the net increase in sales by customer end markets for both 2006 and 2005 are as follows: &bull; Air transport and regional original equipment (OE) sales increased by 14 percent in 2006 and 9 percent in 2005 primarily driven by increased deliveries to air transport customers primarily due to higher aircraft production rates. &bull; Air transport and regional aftermarket sales increased by 4 percent in 2006 as a result of increased sales of spare parts and maintenance activity relating to a more than 5 percent increase in global flying hours which more than offset the anticipated decline in the sales of upgrades and retrofits of avionics equipment to meet certain mandated regulatory standards. In 2005, sales increased by 3 percent due primarily to a 7 percent increase in flying hours which was partially offset by a decrease in the level of FAA mandated safety avionics equipment upgrades and retrofits and the impact of the phase out of regional aircraft with turboprop engines. &bull; Business and general aviation OE sales increased by 16 percent in 2006 and by 42 percent in 2005 due primarily to the continued demand in the business jet end market as evidenced by an increase in new business jet deliveries and high demand in the fractional ownership market. These sales primarily relate to sales of Primus Epic integrated avionics systems, and the TFE 731 and HTF 7000 engines, which generated sales commencing in 2005. &bull; Business and general aviation aftermarket sales increased by 1 percent in 2006, due to increased sales of spare parts and increased maintenance activity resulting in part from higher 25 engine utilization, partially offset lower sales of mandated upgrades and retrofits of avionics equipment required in the prior year to meet certain mandated regulatory standards. In 2005, sales increased by 10 percent due to these mandates, and as a result of increased engine utilization for corporate aircraft. &bull; Defense and space sales increased by 3 percent in 2006 primarily due to higher sales of surface systems and sales of spare parts for helicopters that offset lower volume of space sales due to delays in project funding. In 2005, defense and space sales increased by 2 percent, primarily driven by platform upgrades for war related activities, growth in precision munitions and increased spending on restricted space programs. These factors lower replenishment demand for spare parts from the US military in both 2005 and 2006. Aerospace segment profit increased by 13 percent in 2006 compared with 2005 due primarily to sales volume growth, increased prices and productivity savings (including benefits from prior restructuring actions) that were partially offset by inflation and the impact of stronger OE sales that typically have lower margins than aftermarket sales. Segment profit increased by 18 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 due primarily to volume growth and the effect of productivity actions, partially offset by an increase in spending for information technology systems. 2007 Areas of Focus Aerospaces primary areas of focus for 2007 include: &bull; Continuing to grow the sales and profitability of the commercial aerospace aftermarket in the highly competitive and cost focused airline industry; &bull; Securing Honeywell product content on new aircraft platforms; &bull; Continuing to design equipment that enhances the safety, performance and durability of aerospace and defense equipment, while reducing weight and operating costs; and &bull; Developing differentiated, affordable products and services for the defense and space end market. Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) Overview ACS provides innovative solutions that make homes, buildings, industrial sites, airport facilities and infrastructure more efficient, safe and comfortable. Our ACS products and services include controls for heating, cooling, indoor air quality, ventilation, humidification and home automation; advanced software applications for home/building control and optimization; sensors, switches, control systems and instruments for measuring pressure, air flow, temperature and electrical current; security, fire and gas detection; access control; video surveillance; remote patient monitoring systems; installation, maintenance and upgrades of systems that keep buildings safe, comfortable and productive; and automation and control solutions for industrial plants, including advanced software and automation systems that integrate, control and monitor complex processes in many types of industrial settings. Economic and Other Factors ACSs operating results are principally driven by: &bull; The growth of global commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades); &bull; Demand for residential retrofits and upgrades; &bull; Industrial production; &bull; U.S. and European economic conditions; &bull; The strength of capital spending on process and building automation; and &bull; Changes to fire, security, health care and safety concerns and regulations. 26 Results of Operations 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 11,020 $ 9,416 $ 8,031 % change compared with prior year 17 % 17 % Segment profit $ 1,223 $ 1,065 $ 894 % change compared with prior year 15 % 19 % ACS sales increased by 17 percent in 2006 compared with 2005 due to organic sales growth of 10 percent and 7 percent growth from acquisitions, net of divestitures. All of ACS businesses contributed to organic growth in the year. In 2005 sales increased by 17 percent compared to 2004, which was primarily due to growth from acquisitions of 13 percent and organic growth of 4 percent. Organic sales growth in ACS products businesses increased by 8 percent in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to strong customer demand for new products in our security and life safety products and increased sales to customers in emerging markets for environmental, combustion, sensing and control products. In 2005, organic sales for products increased by 5 percent compared to 2004, primarily due to strong sales of fire solutions and security products, and the favorable effects of foreign exchange. Organic sales in ACS solutions businesses increased by 11 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 driven by continued strong orders growth, strong conversion to sales from our order backlog and increased sales in emerging markets and strong revenue from energy projects. In 2005, organic sales growth for the solutions businesses was 3 percent compared to 2004 due primarily to favorable foreign exchange and increased capital spending. Sales from acquisitions, net of divestitures, increased by 7 percent in 2006 compared with 2005, largely representing revenues in ACS products businesses relating to NOVAR (primarily environmental, combustion, building controls and life safety products) for the first quarter of 2006, Zellweger (gas detection) for the first two quarters of 2006 and revenues from our Gardiner Groupe (security distribution) and First Technology (gas detection) acquisitions in the last three quarters of 2006. In 2005, sales from acquisitions net of divestitures increased by 13 percent compared to 2004, due primarily to the acquisition of NOVAR, partially offset by the loss of sales due to the divestiture of our Security Monitoring business. ACS segment profit increased by 15 percent in 2006 compared with 2005 due principally to increased sales volume and productivity savings (including net integration savings from our acquisitions) that more than offset continued inflation. Segment profit was also negatively impacted in 2006 by a contract loss experienced on a Building Solutions project, and by ERP implementation costs. ACS segment profit in 2005 increased by 19 percent compared with 2004 as the favorable effects of productivity actions, acquisitions (NOVAR) and higher sales volume more than offset the unfavorable effects of lower prices and investments in sales and marketing initiatives. 2007 Areas of Focus ACSs primary areas of focus for 2007 include: &bull; Extending technology leadership: lowest total installed cost and integrated product solutions; &bull; Defending and extending our installed base through customer productivity and globalization; &bull; Sustaining strong brand recognition through our brand and channel management; and &bull; Centralization and standardization of global software development capabilities. Specialty Materials Overview Specialty Materials develops and manufactures high purity, high quality and high performance chemicals and materials for applications in the automotive, healthcare, agricultural, packaging, carpet fibers, refrigeration, appliance, housing, semiconductor, wax and adhesives segments. Specialty 27 Materials also provides process technology, products and services for the petroleum refining, petrochemical, and other industries. Specialty Materials product portfolio includes fluorocarbons, caprolactam, ammonium sulfate for fertilizer, specialty films, advanced fibers, customized research chemicals and intermediates, electronic materials and chemicals, catalysts, and adsorbents. Economic and Other Factors Specialty Materials operating results are principally driven by: &bull; The degree of volatility in natural gas, benzene (the key component in phenol) and fluorspar prices; &bull; The impact of environmental and energy efficiency regulations; &bull; The extent of change in order rates from global semiconductor customers; &bull; The global demand for non ozone depleting Hydro fluorocarbons (HFCs); &bull; The extent of the slowdown of the US residential housing industry; and &bull; The level of investment in refining and petrochemical capacity, utilization and or expansion. Results of Operations 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 4,631 $ 3,234 $ 3,497 % change compared with prior year 43 % (8) % Segment profit $ 568 $ 257 $ 184 % change compared with prior year 121 % 40 % Specialty Materials sales increased by 43 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 due to organic sales growth of 7 percent and 36 percent growth due to our UOP acquisition, net of divestitures. Sales decreased by 8 percent in 2005 compared with 2004, due to the loss of sales from divested businesses of 16 percent, which was offset by organic growth of 4 percent and growth from acquisitions (UOP) of 4 percent. Organic growth was 7 percent in 2006 primarily due to higher volume and prices. Organic sales in our Fluorine Products business increased by 9 percent due to continued strong demand for non ozone depleting HFC products, and organic growth in our Resins and Chemicals business was 4 percent, primarily due to price increases to recover increased raw material costs. Both of these businesses experienced lower sales growth in the fourth quarter of 2006 due to the slowdown in the US residential housing industry. Our Resins and Chemicals business was also negatively impacted by a partial facility outage in the second half of 2006. Specialty Products organic sales increased by 10 percent due to higher sales to our customers in the semiconductor industry and increased sales of our specialty additives and our advanced fiber body armor. In 2005, organic sales increased by 4 percent, largely as a result of higher prices of 7 percent primarily in our Resins and Chemicals and Fluorine businesses, offsetting lower volumes in Specialty Products businesses. Sales from acquisitions, net of divestitures grew by 36 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. This was due to a 44 percent growth in sales from UOP, which was consolidated into the Specialty Materials segment following our acquisition of the remaining 50 percent interest in UOP in November 2005. Prior to that date, UOP results were included in other income. UOP sales have grown due to continued strength in the petrochemical and refining industries. This growth was offset by the loss of sales of 8 percent principally from the divestiture of our Industrial Wax and North American Nylon Fiber businesses. Specialty Materials segment profit increased by 121 percent in 2006 compared with 2005 due principally to the impact of the UOP acquisition, net of divestitures, and increased organic growth and productivity savings (net of the lost margin from the partial facility outage). Price increases (including benefits from formula based pricing contracts) offset the impact of continued inflation in raw material costs. Specialty Materials segment profit in 2005 increased by 40 percent compared with 2004 due principally to price increases and the favorable effect of productivity actions partially offset by higher raw material costs and lower sales volumes. 28 2007 Areas of Focus Specialty Materials primary areas of focus for 2007 include: &bull; Increasing resources and market penetration in Asia; &bull; Developing new products that address energy efficiency, global warming and security regulations; &bull; Increasing product differentiation in order to continue to expand margins; and &bull; Continued contract wins in the petrochemical and refining industries. Transportation Systems Overview Transportation Systems provides automotive products that improve the performance, efficiency, and appearance of cars, trucks, and other vehicles through state of the art technologies, world class brands and global solutions to customers needs. Transportation Systems products include Garrett(R) turbochargers and charge air and thermal systems; car care products including anti freeze (Prestone(R)), filters (Fram(R)), spark plugs (Autolite(R)), and cleaners, waxes and additives (Holts(R)); and brake hard parts and other friction materials (Bendix(R) and Jurid(R)). Transportation Systems sells its products to OE automotive and truck manufacturers (e.g., BMW, Caterpillar, Daimler Chrysler, Ford, and Volkswagen), wholesalers and distributors and through the retail aftermarket. Economic and Other Factors Transportation Systems operating results are principally driven by: &bull; Global demand for automobile and truck production; &bull; Diesel penetration rates for new platforms; &bull; Global consumer preferences for diesel passenger cars; &bull; Demand for North American truck production in conjunction with new lower emission regulations; &bull; The degree of volatility in raw material prices including nickel and steel; and &bull; Changes in consumer spending for automotive aftermarket and car care products. Results of Operations 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Net sales $ 4,592 $ 4,505 $ 4,323 % change compared with prior year 2 % 4 % Segment profit $ 574 $ 557 $ 575 % change compared with prior year 3 % (3) % Transportation Systems sales increased 2 percent in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to increased sales in our Turbo Technologies business, offset by lower sales in our Consumer Products Group. In 2005, sales increased by 4 percent compared with 2004 due primarily to favorable sales mix of 2 percent, the favorable effect of foreign exchange of 1 percent and the impact of higher prices of 1 percent. Sales for our Turbo Technologies business were 6 percent higher in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to new product introductions in Europe and Asia, a slight increase in diesel penetration in Europe and relatively flat sales in the U.S. Sales were 5 percent higher in 2005 compared to 2004 due to higher volumes in our North American truck segment, offset by lower volumes in Europe due to a shift in consumer demand among automotive platforms partially offset by a slight increase in diesel penetration. Sales for our Consumer Products Group business decreased by 4 percent in 2006 as a result of reduced consumer spending in North America on automotive aftermarket products and our exit of the North America Friction Materials OE business. Sales increased by 8 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 29 largely due to higher prices, offset by the impact of our exit in late 2005 from the North American Friction Materials OE business. Transportation Systems segment profit increased by 3 percent in 2006 compared with 2005 due primarily to increased Turbo Technologies volume and productivity savings including the benefits of prior year restructuring actions, which offset higher material and labor inflation and increased warranty expense. Transportation Systems segment profit in 2005 decreased by 3 percent compared with 2004 due primarily to the impact of higher raw material costs (mainly steel and nickel) and operating costs associated with the exit from North American Friction Materials OE business in late 2005, partially offset by the effects of higher prices and productivity actions. 2007 Areas of Focus Transportation Systems primary areas of focus in 2007 include: &bull; Sustaining superior turbocharger technology; &bull; Increasing global market penetration and share of diesel and gasoline turbocharger OEM demand; and &bull; Expanding and strengthening established strong product brands in our Consumer Products Group business, including expansion into new geographic and demographic segments. Repositioning and Other Charges A summary of repositioning and other charges follows: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Severance $ 102 $ 248 $ 85 Asset impairments 15 5 21 Exit costs 7 14 10 Reserve adjustments (22 ) (25 ) (28 ) Total net repositioning charge 102 242 88 Asbestos related litigation charges, net of insurance 126 10 76 Probable and reasonably estimable environmental liabilities 210 186 536 Business impairment charges 12 23 42 Arbitration award related to phenol supply agreement (18 ) (67 ) &mdash; Other 51 18 33 Total net repositioning and other charges $ 483 $ 412 $ 775 The following table summarizes the pretax distribution of total net repositioning and other charges by income statement classification. Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Cost of products and services sold $ 472 $ 357 $ 739 Selling, general and administrative expenses 11 43 25 Other (income) expense &mdash; 12 11 $ 483 $ 412 $ 775 The following tables provide details of the pretax impact of total net repositioning and other charges by reportable segment. Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Aerospace Net repositioning charge $ 10 $ 96 $ 5 Other &mdash; &mdash; (10 ) $ 10 $ 96 $ (5 ) 30 Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Automation and Control Solutions Net repositioning charge $ 39 $ 84 $ 15 Other &mdash; 1 13 $ 39 $ 85 $ 28 Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Specialty Materials Net repositioning charge $ 11 $ 14 $ 36 Business impairment charges 12 23 42 Arbitration award related to phenol supply agreement (18 ) (67 ) &mdash; Other &mdash; (4 ) 12 $ 5 $ (34 ) $ 90 Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Transportation Systems Net repositioning charge $ 32 $ 49 $ 26 Asbestos related litigation charges, net of insurance 261 31 120 Other &mdash; 2 1 $ 293 $ 82 $ 147 Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in millions) Corporate Net repositioning charge $ 10 $ (1 ) $ 6 Asbestos related litigation charges, net of insurance (135 ) (21 ) (44 ) Probable and reasonably estimable environmental liabilities 210 186 536 Other 51 19 17 $ 136 $ 183 $ 515 In 2006, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $124 million primarily for severance costs related to workforce reductions of 2,253 manufacturing and administrative positions across all of our reportable segments. Also, $22 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance at our Aerospace, Transportation Systems and Specialty Materials reportable segments, were returned to income in 2006 due mainly to changes in the scope of previously announced severance programs and due to fewer employee separations than originally planned associated with prior Aerospace severance actions. In 2005, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $267 million primarily for severance costs related to workforce reductions of 5,269 maufacturing and administrative positions across all of our reportable segments including the implementation of a new organizational structure in our Aerospace reportable segment (substantially implemented in the third quarter of 2005) which reorganized our Aerospace businesses to better align with customer segments. Also, $25 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance at our Corporate, Specialty Materials and Automation and Control Solutions reportable segments were returned to income in 2005. The reversal of severance liabilities related to changes in the scope of previously announced severance programs, excise taxes related to an executive severance amount previously paid which were determined to no longer be payable, and severance amounts previously paid to an outside service provider as part of an outsourcing arrangement which were refunded to Honeywell. In 2004, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $116 million primarily for severance costs related to workforce reductions of 2,272 manufacturing and administrative positions across all of our 31 reportable segments. Also, $28 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance, were returned to income in 2004, due to fewer employee separations than originally planned associated with certain prior repositioning actions, resulting in reduced severance liabilities principally in our Automation and Control Solutions reportable segment. Our 2006 repositioning actions are expected to generate incremental pretax savings of approximately $100 million in 2007 compared with 2006 principally from planned workforce reductions. Cash expenditures for severance and other exit costs necessary to execute our repositioning actions were $142, $171 and $164 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Such expenditures for severance and other exit costs have been funded principally through operating cash flows. Cash expenditures for severance and other exit costs necessary to execute the remaining actions will approximate $125 million in 2007 and will be funded through operating cash flows. In 2006, we recognized a charge of $210 million for environmental liabilities deemed probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos related litigation charges, net of insurance, of $126 million which are discussed in more detail in Note 21 to the financial statements. We recognized other charges of $51 million related to our Corporate segment primarily for the settlement of a property damage claim litigation matter in Brunswick, GA and our entrance into a plea agreement related to an environmental matter at our Baton Rouge, LA. facility (see Note 21 to the financial statements). We recognized impairment charges of $12 million related to the write down of property, plant and equipment held for sale in Specialty Materials. We also recognized a credit of $18 million in connection with an arbitration award for overcharges by a supplier of phenol to Specialty Materials for 2005 transactions. In 2005, we recognized a charge of $186 million for environmental liabilities deemed probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos related litigation charges, net of insurance, of $10 million which are discussed in more detail in Note 21 to the financial statements. We recognized a credit of $67 million in connection with an arbitration award for overcharges by a supplier of phenol to our Specialty Materials business from June 2003 through the end of 2004. We recognized impairment charges of $23 million related to the write down of property, plant and equipment held and used in our Specialty Materials reportable segment. We also recognized other charges of $18 million principally related to the modification of a lease agreement for the Corporate headquarters facility ($10 million) and for various legal settlements ($7 million). In 2004, we recognized a charge of $536 million for probable and reasonably estimable environmental liabilities primarily related to the estimated costs of the court ordered excavation and transport for offsite disposal of approximately one million tons of chromium residue present at a predecessor Honeywell site located in Jersey City, New Jersey, and environmental conditions in and around Onondaga Lake in Syracuse, New York. Both of these environmental matters are discussed in further detail in Note 21 to the financial statements. We recognized asbestos related litigation charges, net of insurance, of $76 million which are discussed in Note 21. We recognized an impairment charge of $42 million in the second quarter of 2004 related principally to the write down of property, plant and equipment of our Performance Fibers business in our Specialty Materials reportable segment. This business was sold in December 2004. We also recognized other charges of $33 million consisting of $29 million for various legal settlements including property damage claims in our Automation and Control Solutions reportable segment, $14 million for the write off of receivables, inventories and other assets net of a reversal of a reserve of $10 million established in the prior year for a contract settlement. 32 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company continues to manage its businesses to maximize operating cash flows as the primary source of liquidity. We supplement operating cash with short term debt from the commercial paper market and with long term borrowings. We continue to balance our cash and financing uses through investment in our existing core businesses, acquisition activity, share repurchases and dividends. Cash Flow Summary Our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31. 2006, 2005 and 2004 are summarized as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Cash provided by (used for): Operating activities $ 3,211 $ 2,442 $ 2,253 Investing activities (614 ) (2,010 ) (584 ) Financing activities (2,649 ) (2,716 ) (1,223 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 42 (68 ) 190 Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (10 ) $ (2,352 ) $ 636 Cash provided by operating activities increased by $769 million during 2006 compared with 2005 primarily due to increased earnings, lower cash payments for asbestos of $331 million, receipt of $100 million from the sale of an insurance receivable, an increase in customer advances and deferred income (net of acquisitions) of $115 million and $93 million receipt of an arbitration award relating to raw material pricing in Specialty Materials, partially offset by increased working capital usage (accounts and other receivables (net of tax receivables), inventory and accounts payable) of $263 million (including proceeds of $58 million from the sale of a long term receivable), higher cash tax payments (net of tax receipts) of $236 million and higher pension and postretirement payments of $154 million. Cash provided by operating activities increased by $189 million during 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to increased earnings, working capital improvements, net of tax receivables, of $258 million, offset by higher cash payments for asbestos of $232 million and higher cash tax payments (net of tax receipts) of $57 million. Cash used for investing activities decreased by $1,396 million during 2006 compared with 2005 due primarily to lower spending for acquisitions, partially offset by lower proceeds of $285 million from maturities of investment securities. In 2006, cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired was $633 million primarily for First Technologies and Gardiner Groupe, compared to $2,679 million in 2005, primarily for our acquisitions of NOVAR and UOP. Sale proceeds from divestitures was $665 million in the 2006 primarily due to the sale of Indalex in February for $425 million, First Technology Safety & Analysis business (FTSA) for $93 million in May 2006 and the sale of First Technology Automotive Business in December 2006 for $90 million. Cash used for investing activities increased by $1,426 million during 2005 compared with 2004 due primarily to the acquisition of NOVAR and UOP. Cash used for financing activities decreased by $67 million during 2006 compared 2005 primarily due to a $356 million reduction for the payment of debt assumed with acquisitions, an increase in net proceeds from debt of $258 million, and increased proceeds from issuance of common stock primarily related to stock option exercises of $229 million, offset by increases in repurchases of common stock of $763 million and increased dividend payments. Cash used for financing activities increased by $1,493 million during 2005 compared 2004, primarily due payment of debt assumed with acquisition of $702 million, increased net repayments of debt of $418 million and an increase in repurchases of common stock of $409 million. 33 Liquidity Each of our businesses is focused on implementing strategies to improve working capital turnover in 2007 to increase operating cash flows. Considering the current economic environment in which each of our businesses operate and our business plans and strategies, including our focus on growth, cost reduction and productivity initiatives, we believe that our cash balances and operating cash flows will remain our principal source of liquidity. In addition to our available cash and operating cash flows, additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines, access to the public debt and equity markets, as well as our ability to sell trade accounts receivables. A source of liquidity is our ability to issue short term debt in the commercial paper market. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount and have a maturity of not more than 270 days from date of issuance. Borrowings under the commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes as well as for financing potential acquisitions. There was $669 million of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2006. Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit ratings and our $2.5 billion of committed bank revolving credit facilities (Revolving Credit Facilities). Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by the major independent debt rating agencies. In 2006, Standard and Poors, Fitchs and Moodys Rating Services affirmed their corporate ratings on our long term debt of A and A+ and A2 respectively, and short term debt of A 1, F1 and P 1 respectively, and maintained Honeywells ratings outlook as stable. On April 27, 2006 Honeywell entered into a $2.3 billion Five Year Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of banks. Commitments under the Credit Agreement can be increased pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement to an aggregated amount not to exceed $3 billion. This credit facility contains a $500 million sub limit for the issuance of letters of credit. The $2.3 billion credit agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes, including support for the issuance of commercial paper. We had no borrowings and have issued $145 million of letters of credit under the credit facility at December 31, 2006. The Credit Agreement replaces the previous $1 billion five year credit agreement dated as of October 22, 2004, and $1.3 billion five year credit agreement dated as of November 26, 2003 (the Prior Agreements). The Credit Agreement does not restrict Honeywells ability to pay dividends, nor does it contain financial covenants. In September 2006, the Company renewed its 364 day Canadian Dollar (CAD) credit facility for 220 million CAD. This facility was established for general corporate purposes, including support for the issuance of commercial paper in Canada. There are no borrowings outstanding under this credit facility at December 31, 2006. In March 2006, the Company issued $300 million of floating rate (Libor + 6 bps) Senior Notes due 2009, $400 million 5.40% Senior Notes due 2016 and $550 million 5.70% Senior Notes due 2036 (collectively, the Notes). The Notes are senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Honeywell and rank equally with all of Honeywells existing and future senior unsecured debt and senior to all Honeywells subordinated debt. The offering resulted in gross proceeds of $1,250 million, offset by $11 million in discount and closing costs relating to the offering. Proceeds from the notes were used to repay commercial paper and debt. During the first quarter of 2006, the Company made a cash tender offer and repurchased $225 million of its $500 million 5.125% Notes due November 2006. The costs relating to the early redemption of the Notes were immaterial. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company repaid $360 million (Euro 275 million) of its 5.27% Notes, primarily through issuance of commercial paper. We also have a current shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission which allows us to issue up to $3 billion in debt securities, common stock and preferred stock that may be offered in one or more offerings on terms to be determined at the time of the offering. Net proceeds of any offering would be used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of existing indebtedness, capital expenditures and acquisitions. 34 We also sell interests in designated pools of trade accounts receivables to third parties. The sold receivables were over collateralized by $171 million at December 31, 2006 and we retain a subordinated interest in the pool of receivables representing that over collateralization as well as an undivided interest in the balance of the receivables pools. New receivables are sold under the agreement as previously sold receivables are collected. The retained interests in the receivables are reflected at the amounts expected to be collected by us, and such carrying value approximates the fair value of our retained interests. The sold receivables were $500 million at both December 31, 2006 and 2005. In addition to our normal operating cash requirements, our principal future cash requirements will be to fund capital expenditures, debt repayments, dividends, employee benefit obligations, environmental remediation costs, asbestos claims, severance and exit costs related to repositioning actions, share repurchases and any strategic acquisitions. Specifically, we expect our primary cash requirements in 2007 to be as follows: &bull; Capital expenditures&mdash;we expect to spend approximately $800 million for capital expenditures in 2007 primarily for growth, replacement, production capacity expansion, cost reduction and maintenance. &bull; Debt repayments&mdash;there are $423 million of scheduled long term debt maturities in 2007. We expect to refinance substantially all of these maturities in the debt capital markets during 2007. &bull; Share repurchases&mdash;We intend to continue to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time in the open market using cash generated from operations. In February 2007, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of shares of up to $3 billion of Honeywell common stock. Honeywell intends to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time in the open market using cash flow generated by operations. The amount and timing of repurchases may vary depending on market conditions and the level of other investing activities. &bull; Dividends&mdash;we expect to pay approximately $800 million in dividends on our common stock in 2007, reflecting the 10 percent increase in the dividend rate announced by Honeywells Board of Directors in December 2006. &bull; Asbestos claims&mdash;we expect our cash spending for asbestos claims and our cash receipts for related insurance recoveries to be approximately $557 and $157 million, respectively, in 2007. See Asbestos Matters in Note 21 to the financial statements for further discussion. &bull; Pension contributions&mdash;assuming that actual pension plan returns are consistent with our expected rate of return of 9 percent in 2007 and beyond and that interest rates remain constant, we would not be required to make any contributions to our U.S. pension plans to satisfy minimum statutory funding requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we expect to make voluntary contributions of approximately $52 million to our U.S. pension plans in 2007 for government contracting purposes. We also expect to make contributions to our non U.S. plans of approximately $155 million in 2007. See Note 22 to the financial statements for further discussion of pension contributions. &bull; Repositioning actions&mdash;we expect that cash spending for severance and other exit costs necessary to execute the remaining repositioning actions will approximate $125 million in 2007. &bull; Environmental remediation costs&mdash;we expect to spend approximately $250 million in 2007 for remedial response and voluntary clean up costs. See Environmental Matters in Note 21 to the financial statements for additional information. We continuously assess the relative strength of each business in our portfolio as to strategic fit, market position, profit and cash flow contribution in order to upgrade our combined portfolio and identify business units that will most benefit from increased investment. We identify acquisition candidates that will further our strategic plan and strengthen our existing core businesses. We also identify businesses that do not fit into our long term strategic plan based on their market position, relative profitability or growth potential. These businesses are considered for potential divestiture, restructuring or other repositioning actions subject to regulatory constraints. In 2006, we realized $665 million in cash proceeds from sales of non strategic businesses. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our future cash needs. Our available cash, committed credit lines, access to the 35 public debt and equity markets as well as our ability to sell trade accounts receivables, provide additional sources of short term and long term liquidity to fund current operations, debt maturities, and future investment opportunities. Based on our current financial position and expected economic performance, we do not believe that our liquidity will be adversely impacted by an inability to access our sources of financing. Contractual Obligations and Probable Liability Payments Following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations and probable liability payments at December 31, 2006: Payments by Period Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter (Dollars in millions) Long term debt, including capitalized leases(1) $ 4,332 $ 423 $ 927 $ 1,656 $ 1,326 Minimum operating lease payments 1,078 304 377 174 223 Purchase obligations(2) 3,446 863 1,361 704 518 Estimated environmental liability payments(3) 831 250 346 221 14 Asbestos related liability payments(4) 1,819 557 926 298 38 11,506 2,397 3,937 3,053 2,119 Asbestos insurance recoveries(5) (1,257 ) (157 ) (83 ) (98 ) (919 ) $ 10,249 $ 2,240 $ 3,854 $ 2,955 $ 1,200 (1) Assumes all long term debt is outstanding until scheduled maturity. (2) Purchase obligations are entered into with various vendors in the normal course of business and are consistent with our expected requirements. (3) The amounts in the table do not reflect any significant environmental liability payments after 2011. See Note 21 to the financial statements for additional information. (4) These amounts are estimates of asbestos related cash payments for NARCO and Bendix. NARCO estimated payments are based on the terms and conditions, including evidentiary requirements, specified in the definitive agreements or agreements in principle and pursuant to Trust Distribution Procedures. Bendix payments are based on our estimate of pending and future claims. Projecting future events is subject to many uncertainties that could cause asbestos liabilities to be higher or lower than those projected and recorded. See Asbestos Matters in Note 21 to the financial statements for additional information. (5) These amounts represent probable insurance recoveries through 2018. See Asbestos Matters in Note 21 to the financial statements. The table excludes our pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) obligations. We made voluntary contributions of $68 and $40 million to our U.S. pension plans in 2006 and 2004, respectively. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns and interest rates. Assuming that actual plan asset returns are consistent with our expected plan return of 9 percent in 2007 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, we would not be required to make any contributions to our U.S. pension plans to satisfy minimum statutory funding requirements for the foreseeable future. We expect to make voluntary contributions of approximately $52 million to our U.S. plans in 2007 for government contracting purposes. We expect to make contributions to our non U.S. plans of approximately $155 million in 2007. Payments due under our OPEB plans are not required to be funded in advance, but are paid as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations, and are principally dependent upon the future cost of retiree medical benefits under our plans. We expect our OPEB payments to approximate $189 million in 2007 net of the benefit of approximately $22 million from the Medicare prescription subsidy. See Note 22 to the financial statements for further discussion of our pension and OPEB plans. 36 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Following is a summary of our off balance sheet arrangements: Guarantees&mdash;We have issued or are a party to the following direct and indirect guarantees at December 31, 2006: Maximum Potential Future Payments (Dollars in millions) Operating lease residual values $ 38 Other third parties financing 6 Unconsolidated affiliates financing 9 Customer financing 22 $ 75 We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. In connection with the disposition of certain businesses and facilities we have indemnified the purchasers for the expected cost of remediation of environmental contamination, if any, existing on the date of disposition. Such expected costs are accrued when environmental assessments are made or remedial efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Retained Interests in Factored Pools of Trade Accounts Receivables&mdash;As a source of liquidity, we sell interests in designated pools of trade accounts receivables to third parties. The sold receivables ($500 million at December 31, 2006) are over collateralized and we retain a subordinated interest in the pool of receivables representing that over collateralization as well as an undivided interest in the balance of the receivables pools. The over collateralization provides credit support to the purchasers of the receivable interest by limiting their losses in the event that a portion of the receivables sold becomes uncollectible. At December 31, 2006, our retained subordinated and undivided interests at risk were $171 and $579 million, respectively. Based on the underlying credit quality of the receivables placed into the designated pools of receivables being sold, we do not expect that any losses related to our retained interests at risk will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Environmental Matters We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements relating to the protection of the environment. We believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. However, mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we, like other companies engaged in similar businesses, have incurred remedial response and voluntary cleanup costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing toxic substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. With respect to environmental matters involving site contamination, we continually conduct studies, individually or jointly with other responsible parties, to determine the feasibility of various remedial techniques to address environmental matters. It is our policy (see Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements in 
 
