Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including the overview of the Company and each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2008. These sections and other parts of this report (including this Item 1A) contain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. They are based on managements assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward looking statements. We do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward looking statements. Our forward looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near and long term. These forward looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this Form 10 K, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. Risk Factors Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. The operating results of our segments are impacted by general industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our manufacturing costs. The operating results of our Aerospace segment, which generated 35 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production and or the retirement of older aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as supplier consolidation, factory transitions and capacity constraints, and the level and mix of U.S. Government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed in other risk factors below). The challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as well as changes in regulations. Future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our Aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. The operating results of our Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) segment, which generated 36 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, and global economic growth rates. Specialty Materials operating results, which generated 14 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are impacted by global economic growth rates, and capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining and petrochemical plants. Transportation Systems operating results, which generated 15 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, and consumer spending levels and patterns for automotive aftermarket and car care products. Each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw material prices (as further described below) and non material inflation. 10 Raw material price fluctuations and the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements can increase the cost of our products and services and impact our ability to meet commitments to customers. The cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our Specialty Materials (benzene (the key component in phenol), natural gas, ethylene and sulfur), Transportation Systems (nickel, steel, other metals and ethylene glycol) and Aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. We also depend in limited instances on sole source suppliers. Our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their non performance. The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes or governmental actions. Our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. Our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite expertise. Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. These development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. Protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. We own or are licensed under a large number of U.S. and non U.S. patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. In some non U.S. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. Any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. 11 An increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. Our international operations, including U.S. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results and our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as China, India and the Middle East. In 2007, 49 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the U.S. and in international locations) were outside of the U.S. including 29 percent in Europe and 11 percent in Asia. Risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import and trade restrictions (including embargoes), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff in these regions. The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. As we continue to grow our businesses internationally, our operating results could be increasingly effected by the relative strength of the European and Asian economies and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. We do have a policy to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, but such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us and may not be successful in eliminating such volatility. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long lived assets. At December 31, 2007, the net carrying value of long lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) totaled approximately $15.7 billion. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our long lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long lived assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners equity and increase our debt to total capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our access to the public debt and equity markets. A change in the level of U.S. Government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact sales of Aerospaces defense and space related product and services. Sales of our defense and space related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. Sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense comprised approximately 26 and 9 percent of Aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2007. Although U.S. defense spending increased in 2007 and is expected to increase again in 2008, we cannot predict the extent to which funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2009 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by Congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and or the nature of war related activity on existing, follow on or replacement programs. A shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. As a supplier of military and other equipment to the U.S. Government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. In addition to normal business risks, companies like Honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on 12 Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislations and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense competition for U.S. Government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the industry. Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to audits. Like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts to comply with various government regulations. We have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in appropriate cases and may do so in the future. U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for additional costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from any other source and any other damages suffered by the government. We are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. If Honeywell or one of its businesses were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and or have its export privileges suspended. The U.S. Government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years. Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. The sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. Safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the Federal Aviation Administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact Aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. The demand for and cost of providing Automation and Control Solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, enviornmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. Specialty Materials results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our Transportation Systems segment. Completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned. We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non core businesses. We may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into Honeywell on schedule and or to achieve synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, and or (iv) the inability to dispose of non core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected timeframe. 13 We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. Resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. The incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. Our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. Mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. We have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing toxic substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, or the imposition of new clean up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our expenses include significant costs related to employee health and retiree health and income benefits. With approximately 122,000 employees, including 57,000 in the U.S., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and income benefits are significant. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. Continued increasing health care costs, and changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health and income benefit expenses, may affect our future profitability. Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. In 2007, our tax expense represented 26.4 percent of our income before tax, and includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company that 14 could effect the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. Volatility of credit markets or macro economic factors may increase our cost of financing Changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long term ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable Item 2. Properties We have approximately 1,400 locations consisting of plants, research laboratories, sales offices and other facilities. Our headquarters and administrative complex is located at Morris Township, New Jersey. Our plants are generally located to serve large marketing areas and to provide accessibility to raw materials and labor pools. Our properties are generally maintained in good operating condition. Utilization of these plants may vary with sales to customers and other business conditions; however, no major operating facility is significantly idle. We own or lease warehouses, railroad cars, barges, automobiles, trucks, airplanes and materials handling and data processing equipment. We also lease space for administrative and sales staffs. Our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. We do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. Our principal plants, which are owned in fee unless otherwise indicated, are as follows: Aerospace Anniston, AL (leased)Glendale, AZ (leased)Phoenix, AZTempe, AZTucson, AZTorrance, CAClearwater, FL South Bend, INOlathe, KSMinneapolis, MNPlymouth, MNRocky Mount, NCAlbuquerque, NM Urbana, OHGreer, SCRedmond, WA (leased)Toronto, CanadaRaunheim, GermanySingapore (leased)Yeovil, UK (leased) Automation and Control Solutions Phoenix, AZ (leased)San Diego, CA (leased)Northford, CTFreeport, IL Golden Valley, MN Skaneateles Falls, NY (leased)Mosbach, GermanyNeuss, Germany Schonaich, Germany Chihuahua, MexicoJuarez, Mexico(partially leased)Tijuana, Mexico(leased)Emmen, NetherlandsNewhouse, Scotland Specialty Materials Mobile, ALDes Plaines, ILMetropolis, ILBaton Rouge, LA Geismar, LAShreveport, LAPottsville, PAOrange, TXChesterfield, VA Colonial Heights, VAHopewell, VASpokane, WASeelze, Germany 15 Transportation Systems Stratford, CanadaShanghai, ChinaConde, France Thaon Les Vosges, FranceGlinde, GermanyWaterford, Ireland Atessa, ItalyKodama, JapanAnsan, Korea(leased) Mexicali, Mexico (partially leased)Barcelona, Spain Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial amounts) arising out of the conduct of our business. See a discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters in Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements in 
 
