Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), we do not expect our overall operating results to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2012 federal defense spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (OEM production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs) as well as our diversified commercial businesses. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the government. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. Backlog 9 Our total backlog at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $16,160 and $14,616 million, respectively. We anticipate that approximately $12,018 million of the 2011 backlog will be filled in 2012. We believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customers option. Competition We are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. Competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. Competitive conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by us, and vary by country. Our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. Brand identity, service to customers and quality are important competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. Other competitive factors include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. While our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. A number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. In addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment manufacturers. See Item 1A Risk Factors for further discussion. International Operations We are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development globally. U.S. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations. U.S. exports comprised 12, 11 and 12 percent of our total sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in Europe and Asia, were 43, 42 and 40 percent of our total sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Approximately 18 percent of total 2011 sales of Aerospace related products and services were exports of U.S. manufactured products and systems and performance of services such as aircraft repair and overhaul. Exports were principally made to Europe, Asia, Canada, and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and systems and performance of services comprised approximately 15 percent of total 2011 Aerospace sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Canada and Asia. Approximately 3 percent of total 2011 sales of Automation and Control Solutions products and services were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured products and performance of services accounted for 58 percent of total 2011 Automation and Control Solutions sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe and Asia, with less significant operations in Canada and Australia. Approximately 34 percent of total 2011 sales of Performance Materials and Technologies products and services were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Exports were principally made to Asia and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and performance of services comprised 25 percent of total 2011 Performance Materials and Technologies sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Asia. Approximately 3 percent of total 2011 sales of Transportation Systems products were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured products accounted for 85 percent of total 2011 sales of Transportation Systems. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Asia and Latin America. Financial information including net sales and long lived assets related to geographic areas is included in Note 24 of Notes to Financial Statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including the overview of the Company and each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2012. These sections and other parts of this report (including this Item 1A) contain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. They are based on managements assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward looking statements. We do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward looking statements. Our forward looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near and long term. These forward looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this Form 10 K, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. Risk Factors Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. The operating results of our segments are impacted by general global industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our manufacturing and shipping costs. The operating results of our Aerospace segment, which generated 31 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production, the deferral or cancellation of orders for new aircraft, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft platforms, the retirement of aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as changes in customer buying patterns with respect to aftermarket parts, supplier consolidation, factory transitions, capacity constraints, and the level and mix of U.S. Government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed in other risk factors below). The challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including global flying hours, aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as well as changes in regulations. Future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our Aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. The operating results of our Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) segment, which generated 43 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending and operating expenditures on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, inventory levels in distribution channels, and global economic growth rates. Performance Materials and Technologies operating results, which generated 15 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, are impacted by global economic growth rates, capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, and raw material demand and supply volatility. Transportation Systems operating results, which generated 11 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, are impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, and regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, delays in launch schedules for new automotive platforms, and consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket products. Demand of global automotive and truck manufacturers will continue to be influenced by a wide variety of factors, including ability of consumers to obtain financing, ability to reduce operating costs and overall consumer and business confidence. Each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw material prices (as further described below) and non material inflation. Raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers, and cause us to incur significant liabilities. 13 The cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our Performance Materials and Technologies (cumene, fluorspar, perchloroethylene, R240, natural gas, sulfur and ethylene), Transportation Systems (nickel, steel and other metals) and Aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components, and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. In addition, many major components, product equipment items and raw materials are procured or subcontracted on a single source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies; in some circumstances these suppliers are the sole source of the component or equipment. Although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. Our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers inability to scale production and adjust delivery of long lead time products during times of volatile demand. Our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their non performance. The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by suppliers decisions to exit certain businesses, bankruptcy and by external events such as natural disasters, extreme weather events, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes (e.g., product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity, climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards, etc.). Our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. Transitions to new suppliers may result in significant costs and delays, including those related to the required recertification of parts obtained from new suppliers with our customers and or regulatory agencies. In addition, because our businesses cannot always immediately adapt their cost structure to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity for certain products may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements, which could adversely impact our operating costs, profitability and customer and supplier relationships. Our facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to, among other things, fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man made disasters. If any of these facilities or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, result in personal injury or property damage, damage relationships with our customers and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities or systems, as well as result in other liabilities and adverse impacts. The same risk can also arise from the failure of critical systems supplied by Honeywell to large industrial, refining and petrochemical customers. Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. Our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite expertise. Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. These development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. Protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. We own or are licensed under a large number of U.S. and non U.S. patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. Our intellectual property rights may expire or be challenged, invalidated or infringed 14 upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. In some non U.S. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. Any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology (IT) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats. While we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. An increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. Our international operations, including U.S. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results. Our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as China, India, the Middle East and other high growth regions. In 2011, approximately 55 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the U.S. and sold outside the U.S. as well as products manufactured in international locations) were outside of the U.S. including approximately 30 percent in Europe and approximately 12 percent in Asia. Risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. We are also subject to U.S. laws prohibiting companies from doing business in certain countries, or restricting the type of business that may be conducted in these countries. The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. Uncertain global economic conditions arising from circumstances such as sovereign debt issues and credit rating downgrades in certain European countries or speculation regarding changes to the composition or viability of the Euro zone could result in reduced customer confidence resulting in decreased demand for our products and services, disruption in payment patterns and higher default rates, a tightening of credit markets (see risk factor below regarding volatility of credit markets for further discussion), increased risk regarding supplier performance, increased counterparty risk with respect to the financial institutions with which we do business, and exchange rate fluctuations. While we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the financial institutions with whom we transact business could expose Honeywell to financial loss. Sales and purchases in currencies other than the US dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the US dollar and may adversely affect our results of operations. Currency fluctuations may affect product demand and prices we pay for materials, as a result, our operating margins may be negatively impacted. Fluctuations in exchange rates may give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of our non U.S. businesses are translated into U.S. dollars. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and seek to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or successful in significantly mitigating such volatility. Volatility of credit markets or macro economic factors could adversely affect our business. 15 Changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long term ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing. Delays in our customers ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing to our customers, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. The inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could result in the need to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay, as discussed above. Lastly, disruptions in the U.S. and global financial markets could impact the financial institutions with which we do business. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long lived assets or available for sale investments. At December 31, 2011, the net carrying value of long lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) and available for sale securities totaled approximately $19.1 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long lived assets. An other than temporary decline in the market value of our available for sale securities may also result in an impairment charge. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners equity and increase our debt to total capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our credit rating and access to the public debt and equity markets. A change in the level of U.S. Government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact Aerospaces defense and space sales and results of operations. Sales of our defense and space related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. Sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense comprised approximately 29 and 9 percent of Aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011. We cannot predict the extent to which total funding and or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2012 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by Congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and or the nature of war related activity on existing, follow on or replacement programs. A shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. As a supplier of military and other equipment to the U.S. Government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. In addition to normal business risks, companies like Honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract requirements, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for frequent design improvements, intense competition for U.S. Government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the industry, such as contract award protests and delays in the timing of contract approvals. Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments to contract prices and schedules. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to various government audits. Like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts or changes to certain accounting systems or controls to comply with various government regulations. When appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus 16 termination costs and a reasonable profit. If a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for reprocurement costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and for other damages suffered by the government as permitted under the contract. We are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. If, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), Honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and or have its export privileges suspended. The U.S. Government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years. Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. We cannot ensure that our extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures will, in all instances, protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including laws governing payments to government officials, competition and data privacy. Any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non monetary penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations and reputation. Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. The sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. Safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the Federal Aviation Administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact Aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. The demand for and cost of providing Automation and Control Solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. Performance Materials and Technologies results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our Transportation Systems segment. Legislation or regulations regarding areas such as labor and employment, employee benefit plans, tax, health, safety and environmental matters, import, export and trade, intellectual property, product certification, and product liability may impact the results of each of our operating segments and our consolidated results. Completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned. We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non core businesses. We may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into Honeywell on schedule and or to achieve synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, (iv) the inability to dispose of non core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected timeframe, and (v) the degree of protection provided by indemnities from sellers of acquired companies and the obligations under indemnities provided to purchasers of our divested businesses. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. Resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or 17 settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. The incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. Our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. Mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. We have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter state or federal toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our expenses include significant costs related to employee and retiree health benefits. With approximately 132,000 employees, including approximately 53,000 in the U.S., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health benefits are significant. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. Continued increasing health care costs, legislative or regulatory changes, and volatility in discount rates, as well as changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health benefit expenses, may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. Significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and pension contributions in future periods. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding requirements for our U.S. pension plans may become more significant. However, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. For a discussion regarding the significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense, including discount rate and the expected long term rate of return on plan assets, and how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see Critical Accounting Policies included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. In 2011, our tax expense represented 18.3 percent of our income before tax, and includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently 18 reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable Item 2. Properties We have approximately 1,300 locations consisting of plants, research laboratories, sales offices and other facilities. Our headquarters and administrative complex is located in Morris Township, New Jersey. Our plants are generally located to serve large marketing areas and to provide accessibility to raw materials and labor pools. Our properties are generally maintained in good operating condition. Utilization of these plants may vary with sales to customers and other business conditions; however, no major operating facility is significantly idle. We own or lease warehouses, railroad cars, barges, automobiles, trucks, airplanes and materials handling and data processing equipment. We also lease space for administrative and sales staffs. Our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. We do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. Our principal plants, which are owned in fee unless otherwise indicated, are as follows: Aerospace Anniston, AL (leased) Olathe, KS Toronto, Canada Glendale, AZ (leased) Minneapolis, MN (partially leased) Olomouc, Czech Republic (leased) Phoenix, AZ Plymouth, MN Raunheim, Germany Tempe, AZ Rocky Mount, NC Penang, Malaysia Tucson, AZ Albuquerque, NM Chihuahua, Mexico Torrance, CA Urbana, OH Singapore (leased) Clearwater, FL Greer, SC Yeovil, UK (leased) South Bend, IN Automation and Control Solutions San Diego, CA (leased) Pleasant Prairie, WI (leased) Schonaich, Germany (leased) Northford, CT Shenzhen, China (leased) Pune, India (leased) Freeport, IL Suzhou, China Chihuahua, Mexico St. Charles, IL (leased) Tianjin, China (leased) Juarez, Mexico (partially leased) Golden Valley, MN Brno, Czech Republic (leased) Tijuana, Mexico (leased) York, PA (leased) Mosbach, Germany Emmen, Netherlands Neuss, Germany Newhouse, Scotland Performance Materials and Technologies Mobile, AL Shreveport, LA Colonial Heights, VA Des Plaines, IL Frankford, PA Hopewell, VA Metropolis, IL Pottsville, PA Spokane, WA Baton Rouge, LA Orange, TX Seelze, Germany Geismar, LA Chesterfield, VA Transportation Systems Shanghai, China Atessa, Italy Mexicali, Mexico (partially leased) Glinde, Germany Kodama, Japan Bucharest, Romania Ansan, Korea (leased) Pune India 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial amounts) arising out of the conduct of our business. See a discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters in Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements. Environmental Matters Involving Potential Monetary Sanctions in Excess of $100,000 Although the outcome of the matter discussed below cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that it will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations or operating cash flows. The United States Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Department of Justice are investigating whether the Companys manufacturing facility in Hopewell, Virginia is in compliance with the requirements of the Clean Air Act and the facilitys air operating permit. Based on these investigations, the federal authorities have issued notices of violation with respect to the facilitys benzene waste operations, leak detection and repair program, emissions of nitrogen oxides and emissions of particulate matter. The Company has entered into negotiations with federal authorities to resolve the alleged violations. 20 Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of Honeywell, listed as follows, are elected annually by the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships among them. Name, Age, Date First Elected an Executive Officer Business Experience David M. Cote, 59 2002(a) Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since July 2002. Alexandre Ismail, 46 2009 President and Chief Executive Officer Transportation Systems since April 2009. President Turbo Technologies from November 2008 to April 2009. President Global Passengers Vehicles from August 2006 to November 2008. Roger Fradin, 58 2004 President and Chief Executive Officer Automation and Control Solutions since January 2004. Timothy O. Mahoney, 55 2009 President and Chief Executive Officer Aerospace since September 2009. Vice President Aerospace Engineering and Technology and Chief Technology Officer from March 2007 to August 2009. President of Air Transport and Regional from July 2005 to March 2007. Andreas C. Kramvis, 59 2008 President and Chief Executive Officer Performance Materials and Technologies since March 2008. President of Environmental and Combustion Controls from September 2002 to February 2008. David J. Anderson, 62 2003 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2003. Krishna Mikkilineni, 52 2010 Senior Vice President Engineering and Operations since April 2010 and President Honeywell Technology Solutions since January 2009. Vice President Honeywell Technology Solutions from July 2002 to January 2009. Katherine L. Adams, 47 2009 Senior Vice President and General Counsel since April 2009. Vice President and General Counsel from September 2008 to April 2009. Vice President and General Counsel for Performance Materials and Technologies from February 2005 to September 2008. Mark R. James, 50 2007 Senior Vice President Human Resources and Communications since November 2007. Vice President of Human Resources and Communications for Aerospace from October 2004 to November 2007. (a) Also a Director. 21 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market and dividend information for Honeywells common stock is included in Note 26 of Notes to Financial Statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Results of Operations Net sales $ 36,529 $ 32,350 $ 29,951 $ 35,520 $ 33,462 Amounts attributable to Honeywell: Income from continuing operations less net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest 1,858 1,944 1,492 789 2,535 Income from discontinued operations(1) 209 78 56 17 59 Net income attributable to Honeywell(2) 2,067 2,022 1,548 806 2,594 Earnings Per Common Share Basic: Income from continuing operations 2.38 2.51 1.99 1.07 3.31 Income from discontinued operations 0.27 0.10 0.07 0.02 0.08 Net income attributable to Honeywell 2.65 2.61 2.06 1.09 3.39 Assuming dilution: Income from continuing operations 2.35 2.49 1.98 1.06 3.27 Income from discontinued operations 0.26 0.10 0.07 0.02 0.08 Net income attributable to Honeywell 2.61 2.59 2.05 1.08 3.35 Dividends per share 1.37 1.21 1.21 1.10 1.00 Financial Position at Year End Property, plant and equipment net 4,804 4,724 4,847 4,934 4,985 Total assets 39,808 37,834 35,993 35,570 33,805 Short term debt 674 889 1,361 2,510 2,238 Long term debt 6,881 5,755 6,246 5,865 5,419 Total debt 7,555 6,644 7,607 8,375 7,657 Shareowners equity 10,902 10,787 8,971 7,140 9,293 (1) For the year ended December 31, 2011, Income from discontinued operations includes a $178 million, net of tax gain, resulting from the sale of the CPG business which funded a portion of the 2011 repositioning actions. (2) For the year ended December 31, 2008, Net income attributable to Honeywell includes a $417 million, net of tax gain, resulting from the sale of our Consumables Solutions business as well as a charge of $465 million for environmental liabilities deemed probable and reasonably estimable during 2008. 24 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Honeywell International Inc. (Honeywell) for the three years ended December 31, 2011. All references to Notes related to Notes to the Financial Statements in 
 
