Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, incorporated by reference in this report. Customers For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2002, 2001, 2000, 1999 and 1998, revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government accounted for 21.5%, 19.0%, 20.0%, 19.5% and 12.1%, respectively, of total revenues. Foreign Operations For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2002, 2001, 2000, 1999 and 1998, revenues from the Companys operations outside the United States comprised approximately 33.3%, 22.3%, 16.4%, 15.8% and 20.2%, respectively, of total revenues. For fiscal years 1998 and 1999, substantially all such foreign revenues related to the Companys offices in the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Spain and Italy, with a small portion relating to the Companys operations in India. As a result of the acquisition of the Stork E&C businesses (parts of which were completed in fiscal 2000 and fiscal 2001), we expanded our European operations into the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany, and we acquired operations in South East Asia. As a result of the acquisition of the GIBB businesses (which was completed in fiscal 2001), we further expanded our operations in the United Kingdom, and acquired businesses in other European countries. And as a result of the acquisition of Delta (completed in October 2001) we further expanded our business in North America to include Canada. Although the Company has foreign operations located elsewhere around the world in addition to those in Europe, Canada and Asia, revenues earned over the past five years from these other operations were not material. Contracts While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts undertaken by the Company, our contracts can generally be grouped into three broad categories: Cost reimbursable; fixed price and guaranteed maximum price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts during each of the five fiscal years ended September 30: 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 Cost reimbursable 85 % 81 % 77 % 73 % 81 % Fixed price 13 16 18 22 18 Guaranteed maximum price 2 3 5 5 1 In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts are subject to termination at the discretion of the client. Contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of such termination. Page 11 When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement and construction of a project or the maintenance of a process plant, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. The following table presents the approximate amount of such pass through costs included in revenues for each of the five fiscal years ended September 30 (in millions): 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 $1,541.7 $1,272.9 $1,442.1 $1,167.0 $1,066.4 Cost reimbursable contracts Cost reimbursable contracts provide for reimbursement of costs incurred by the Company, plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark up applied to the labor costs incurred on a contract, or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount as specified in the contract, or it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred, or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones or performance factors defined in the contract. The Company prefers this type of contract since it believes that the primary basis for its selection should be its technical expertise and professional qualifications rather than price considerations. Fixed price contracts Fixed price contracts include both negotiated fixed price contracts and lump sum bid contracts. Under a negotiated fixed price contract, the Company is first selected as the contractor, and then the contract price is negotiated. Negotiated fixed price contracts frequently exist in single responsibility arrangements where the Company has the opportunity to perform engineering and design work before negotiating the total price of the project. Under lump sum bid contracts, the Company must bid against other contractors based upon specifications furnished by the client. This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications, problems with new technologies and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period, that are reduced by the negotiation process. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to the Company. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than the other types of contracts. Over the past five years, most of the Companys fixed price work has been either negotiated fixed price contracts, or lump sum bid contracts for services (rather than turn key construction). Guaranteed maximum price contracts Guaranteed maximum price contracts are performed in the same manner as cost reimbursable contracts; however, the total actual cost plus the fee cannot exceed the guaranteed price negotiated with the client. If the total actual cost of the contract exceeds the guaranteed maximum price, then the Company will bear all or a portion of the excess. In those cases where the total actual cost and fee are less than the guaranteed price, the Company will often share the savings on a predetermined basis with the client. Competition The Company is engaged in a highly competitive business. Some of our competitors are larger than us, or are subsidiaries of larger companies, and therefore may possess greater resources than the Company. Furthermore, because the engineering and technical support aspects of the business does not usually require large amounts of capital, there is relative ease of market entry for a new potential entrant possessing acceptable professional qualifications. Accordingly, we compete with both national and international firms in sizes ranging from very large, to a wide variety of small, regional and specialty firms. The extent of the Companys competition varies according to the industries and markets it serves, as well as the geographic areas in which the Company operates. The Companys largest competitors for engineering, construction and maintenance services for process plants include Bechtel Group, Inc., Fluor Corporation, Foster Wheeler Corp., Parsons Corporation, Kellogg Brown & Root, Kvaerner, ABB Lummus, and AMEC plc. In the area of buildings, the Companys competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned, as well as HDR, Inc., Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, AeCOM Technology, Turner Construction, and Day & Zimmermann. In the area of civil engineering and construction, the Companys competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned, as well as Parsons Brinckerhoof, URS Page 12 Corporation, HNTB, and W.S. Atkins. In the area of pulp and paper, the Companys principal competitors include BE&K, and AMEC plc. And in the area of U.S. federal programs, the Companys principal competitors include several of the companies listed above, as well as the Shaw Group, Montgomery Watson, SAIC, CH2M Hill, Roy F. Weston, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Computer Sciences Corporation and Dyncorp. Employees At September 30, 2002, the Company had approximately 21,900 full time, staff employees (including contract staff). Additionally, as of September 30, 2002, there were approximately 13,000 persons employed by the Company in the field on a project basis. The number of field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular time. Page 13 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Pursuant to the requirements of Item 401(b) and 401(e) of Regulation S K, the following information is being furnished with respect to the Companys executive officers: Name Age Position with the Company Year Joined the Registrant Joseph J. Jacobs 86 Director and Chairman of the Board 1947 Noel G. Watson 66 Chief Executive Officer and Director 1965 Craig L. Martin 53 President and Director 1994 Thomas R. Hammond 51 Executive Vice President, Operations 1975 Richard J. Slater 56 Executive Vice President 1980 Walter C. Barber 61 Group Vice President, Asia 1999 Robert M. Clement 54 Group Vice President, International Operations 1990 Warren M. Dean 58 Group Vice President, Facilities 1994 Peter M. Evans 57 Group Vice President, Central Region 2001 Michael J. Higgins 58 Group Vice President, Civil 1994 George A. Kunberger, Jr. 50 Group Vice President, Northern Region 1975 Gregory J. Landry 54 Group Vice President, Field Services 1984 John McLachlan 56 Group Vice President, International Operations 1974 Robert T. McWhinney, Jr. 62 Group Vice President, Consulting Operations 2001 Laurence R. Sadoff 55 Group Vice President, Field Services 1993 H. Gerard Schwartz, Jr. 64 Group Vice President, Civil 1999 Rogers F. Starr 59 President, Sverdrup Technology, Inc. 1999 Philip J. Stassi 47 Group Vice President, Western Region 1977 Allyn B. Taylor 54 Group Vice President, Southern Region 1993 James W. Thiesing 58 Group Vice President, Federal Operations 1992 Andrew F. Kremer 45 Senior Vice President, Quality and Safety 1998 William C. Markley, III 57 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 1981 Michael P. Miller 42 Senior Vice President, Information Technology 2001 John W. Prosser, Jr. 57 Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Treasurer 1974 Nazim G. Thawerbhoy 55 Senior Vice President and Controller 1979 All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with the exception of Messrs. Barber, Evans, Kremer, McWhinney, Miller, Schwartz, and Starr, have served in executive and senior management capacities with the Company for more than five years. Prior to joining the Company in 1999, Mr. Barber served as President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of GTI, INC. (an environmental services firm) for more than five years. Prior to joining the Company in 2001, Mr. Evans served as President of Stone & Webster Engineers & Constructors, Inc. from February 1999 to May 2000; as Executive Vice President of Kellogg Brown & Root from October 1998 to February 1999; and as President and Chief Operating Officer of MW Kellogg from October 1996 to October 1998. In June 2000, Stone & Webster, Inc. filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Prior to joining the Company in 1998, Mr. Kremer served as Vice President Corporate Development for Diamond Fields International from August 1997 to November 1998, and as Vice President, Global Sales Mining & Metals for Fluor Daniel from April 1996 to August 1997. Prior to joining the Company in 2001, Mr. McWhinney served as President and CEO of Stone & Webster Management Consultants, Inc. from February 1997 to December 2000, and as Senior Vice President of International Resources Group, Ltd. from September 1995 to September 1996. Page 14 Prior to joining the Company in 2001, Mr. Miller served as Senior Vice President of Technology for Precision Response Corporation, a division of USA Networks, from April 1999 until he joined the Company. Mr. Miller served as Chief Technology Officer for Aegis Communications Group, Inc. from July 1997 to March 1999, and as Chief Information Officer for Softbank Exposition and Conference Company from August 1995 to March 1997. Prior to joining the Company in 1999, Messrs. Schwartz and Starr were part of the senior management of Sverdrup Corporation, or one of its subsidiaries, for more than five years. Item 2. PROPERTIES The Company owns and leases offices for its technical professional and administrative staff. It also owns property (located in Charleston, South Carolina) which is the principal manufacturing facility for the Companys modular construction activities. The total amount of space used by the Company for all its operations is approximately 4.5 million square feet. The following is a representative list of the Companys principal locations: Country State / Province Cities U.S.A. California Pasadena, Cypress, Ridgecrest, Sacramento, San Francisco and Walnut Creek Arizona Phoenix Colorado Golden (Denver) Florida Ft. Walton Beach, Lakeland, Jacksonville, Orlando and Tampa Indiana Indianapolis Louisiana Baton Rouge Massachusetts Boston Michigan Auburn Hills, Dearborn, Detroit and Novi Missouri St. Louis New Mexico Albuquerque New York New York and Purchase North Carolina Raleigh Ohio Cincinnati and Beavercreek Oregon Lake Oswego (Portland) Pennsylvania Conshohocken and Philadelphia South Carolina Greenville and Charleston Texas Houston and Dallas Tennessee Nashville, Oak Ridge and Tullahoma Virginia Arlington Washington Bellevue (Seattle) Wisconsin DePere (Green Bay) Canada Alberta Calgary and Edmonton Ontario Mississauga and Sarnia Mexico Mexico City United Kingdom Birmingham, Croydon, Edinburgh, Glasgow, London, Manchester, Reading and York Republic of Ireland Cork and Dublin France Lyon, Paris and Toulouse Italy Milan Spain Madrid The Netherlands Leiden, Meerssen and Rotterdam [ continued ] Page 15 Item 2. PROPERTIES Continued Country State Cities Belgium Antwerp Germany Colon and Magdeburg Poland Warsaw Portugal Lisbon and Oporto India Mumbai and New Delhi Singapore Singapore Australia Canberra Turkey Istanbul Udnited Arab Emirates Abu Dhabi Oman Muscat In addition to these properties, the Company leases smaller, project offices located throughout the United States and in certain other countries around the world. The Company maintains sales offices at many of its principal locations. The majority of the Companys offices are leased. The Company also rents a portion of its construction equipment on a short term basis. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. Generally, such guarantees relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation involves the Company as a defendant in workers compensation, personal injury and other similar lawsuits. In addition, as a contractor for many agencies of the United States Government, the Company is subject to many levels of audits, investigations and claims by, or on behalf of, the government with respect to its contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations and procurement practices. Management believes, after consultation with counsel, that such guarantees, litigation, and United States Government contract related audits, investigations and claims should not have any material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In addition to the matters described above, the Company is involved in a dispute with a client relating to a large waste incineration project in Europe. The contract was entered into by a subsidiary of the Company prior to the acquisition of that subsidiary several years ago. The dispute involves proper waste feed, content of residues, final acceptance of the plant and costs of operation and maintenance of the plant. The Company has initiated litigation against the client and is seeking in excess of $25.0 million in damages. The Company believes that its claims are valid and enforceable and that it will be ultimately successful in obtaining a favorable judgment. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. Page 16 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference from Exhibit F to the Companys definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Companys fiscal year. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference from Exhibit F to the Companys definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Companys fiscal year. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference from Exhibit F to the Companys definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Companys fiscal year. Item 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes. In the normal course of business, the Companys results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our only source for long term credit are two revolving credit agreements totaling $275.0 million. The total amounts outstanding under these facilities at September 30, 2002 was $85.7 million. Both agreements expire in January 2004 and provide for both fixed rate and variable rate borrowings. Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we maintain fixed rate debt on a majority of our borrowings and minimize our outstanding borrowings by paying down debt from cash provided from operations. Foreign Currency Risk In general, the Companys exposure to fluctuating exchange rates relates to the effects of translating the financial statements of its foreign subsidiaries, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. The Company follows the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52 Foreign Currency Translation in preparing its consolidated financial statements. We believe our exposure to the effects that fluctuating foreign currencies may have on our consolidated results of operations is limited because, generally speaking, our various operations invoice customers and satisfy their financial obligations in their respective local currencies. In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their own functional currencies, we strive to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. Page 17 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The information required by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference from Exhibit F to the Companys definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the Companys fiscal year. Item 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes. In the normal course of business, the Companys results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our only source for long term credit are two revolving credit agreements totaling $275.0 million. The total amounts outstanding under these facilities at September 30, 2002 was $85.7 million. Both agreements expire in January 2004 and provide for both fixed rate and variable rate borrowings. Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we maintain fixed rate debt on a majority of our borrowings and minimize our outstanding borrowings by paying down debt from cash provided from operations. Foreign Currency Risk In general, the Companys exposure to fluctuating exchange rates relates to the effects of translating the financial statements of its foreign subsidiaries, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. The Company follows the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52 Foreign Currency Translation in preparing its consolidated financial statements. We believe our exposure to the effects that fluctuating foreign currencies may have on our consolidated results of operations is limited because, generally speaking, our various operations invoice customers and satisfy their financial obligations in their respective local currencies. In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their own functional currencies, we strive to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. Page 17 
 
