Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below, for a description of this matter and its effects on the Companys fiscal 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as for a reconciliation to the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP). Project Services We employ all of the engineering, design, architectural, and related disciplines necessary to design and engineer modern process plants (including projects for clients in the chemicals and polymers; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; upstream oil & gas; refining; food and consumer products; and basic resources industries); buildings (including facilities for clients in the health care; education; and criminal justice markets, as well as other specialized buildings for clients in the private sector); infrastructure projects (including highways, roads, bridges, and other transportation systems; water and wastewater treatment plants; water resources facilities; and other similar plants and facilities); technology and manufacturing facilities (for clients in the aerospace; automotive; defense; semiconductor; and electronics industries); consumer products manufacturing facilities; power plants and stations; pulp and paper plants; and other facilities. We also employ many of the requisite scientific, technical, and program management capabilities necessary to provide program integration, testing, and evaluation services for clients in the defense and aerospace industries; for the DoD in support of information systems for weapons acquisition centers; for NASA for aerospace, testing, and propulsion systems and facilities; and for various other agencies of the U.S. federal government in support of environmental programs. We are capable of providing our clients with a variety of value engineering services including safety in design. Through safety in design we integrate best practices, hazard analysis, and risk assessment methods early in the design phase of projects, taking those steps necessary to eliminate or mitigate injury and damage during the construction, start up, testing and commissioning, and operations phases of a project. In the area of construction management, we provide our clients with a wide range of services as an agent for our clients. We may act as the program director, whereby we oversee, on the owners behalf, the complete planning, design, and construction phases of the project. Alternatively, our services may be limited to providing construction consulting. 7 Table of Contents Also included in the category of Project Services are certain related services (such as planning, scheduling, procurement, estimating, cost engineering, project accounting, and quality and safety) necessary to support our engineering, design, construction, construction and program management, operations and maintenance, and consulting services. Process, Scientific and Systems Consulting We employ all of the professional and technical skills and expertise with respect to a broad range of consulting services including: performing pricing studies, market analyses, and financial projections necessary in determining the feasibility of a project; performing gasoline reformulation modeling; analyzing and evaluating layout and mechanical designs for complex processing plants; analyzing automation and control systems; analyzing, designing, and executing biocontainment strategies; developing and performing process protocols with respect to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration mandated qualification and validation requirements; providing consultation on proposed railway and airport expansion projects; and performing geological and metallurgical studies. Also included in this service category are the revenues relating to professional and program management services required to assist clients (such as the U.S. federal government and its agencies) in a wide range of defense and aerospace related programs. Such services typically are more technical and scientific in nature than other project services we provide, and may involve such tasks as supporting the development and testing of conventional weapons systems; weapons modeling and simulations; computer systems development, maintenance, and support; evaluation and testing of mission critical control systems; and other highly technical programs and tasks. Construction We provide traditional field construction services to private and public sector clients in virtually all of the industry groups and markets to which we provide project services. In the area of environmental remediation and restoration, we provide environmental remedial construction services for a variety of public and private sector clients. We also provide many of our clients with modular construction technology. Our modular construction technology is an advanced form of engineering and design, off site fabrication and assembly, and field erection. It provides our clients with an alternative approach to traditional methods of engineering and construction, which can compress and shorten the construction schedule, reduce risk, and lower costs. Historically, our field construction activities were focused primarily on those construction projects for which we perform much of the related engineering and design work. By focusing our construction efforts on such projects, we minimize the risks associated with constructing complex plants and facilities based on designs prepared by third parties. The financial risk to us of constructing complex plants and facilities based on designs prepared by third parties may be particularly significant on fixed price contracts; therefore, we generally avoid this type of project. However, we will pursue construction only projects when we can negotiate pricing and other contract terms we deem acceptable and which we believe will result in a fair return for the degree of risk we assume. Operations and Maintenance (O&M) O&M generally refers to all of the tasks required to operate and maintain large, complex facilities on behalf of clients. We can provide key management and support services over all aspects of the operations of a facility, including managing subcontractors and other on site personnel. Within the environmental area, O&M often includes engineering and technical support services as well as program management services necessary to remediate contaminated sites. Within the aerospace and defense areas, O&M often requires us to provide the management and technical support services necessary to operate and maintain such sites as engine test facilities, weapons integration facilities, and high tech simulation and verification centers. Such O&M contracts also 8 Table of Contents frequently require us to provide facilities management and maintenance services; utilities operations and maintenance services; property management and disposition services; and construction support services. O&M also includes process plant maintenance services, which generally involves all of the tasks required to keep a process plant (typically a refinery or chemical plant) in day to day operation. Such tasks could include the repair and replacement of pumps, piping, heat exchangers, and other equipment as well as turnaround work, which involves major refurbishment that can only be performed when the plant is shut down. Since shutdowns are expensive to the owners of the plant, turnaround work often requires maximizing the number of skilled craft personnel who can work efficiently on a project on a 24 hours per day, seven days per week basis. We use sophisticated computer scheduling and programming to complete turnaround projects quickly, and we maintain contact with a large pool of skilled craft personnel we can hire as needed on maintenance and turnaround projects. Although the gross profit margins that we realize from O&M services are generally lower than those associated with the other services we provide, the costs to support maintenance activities are also generally lower. Additionally, although engineering and construction projects may be of a short term nature, O&M services often result in long term relationships with clients. For example, we have been providing maintenance services at several major process plants within the U.S. for several decades. This aspect of maintenance services greatly reduces the selling costs in respect of such services. Financial Information About Segments Although we describe our business in this Annual Report on Form 10 K in terms of the services we provide, the markets in which our clients operate, and the geographic areas in which we operate, we have concluded that our operations may be aggregated into one reportable segment pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. In making this determination, we considered various economic characteristics of our operations including: the nature of the services we provide, the nature of our internal processes for delivering and distributing those services, and the types of customers we have. In addition to the discussion that follows, please refer to Note 14 Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. There is a high degree of similarity of the workforces among our service categories. For example, engineering and design services (i.e., services provided by persons who are degreed, and in certain circumstances licensed, professionals such as engineers, architects, scientists, and economists) exist in all four service categories. In addition, there is a high degree of similarity among a significant component of the workforces we employ to perform construction and O&M projects. In providing construction and O&M services, we employ a large number of skilled craft labor personnel. These may include welders, pipe fitters, electricians, crane operators, and other personnel who work on very large capital projects (in the case of projects classified within the construction services category) or on smaller capital projects (in the case of maintenance projects classified within the O&M services category). Our operating units use a matrix organizational structure. Our results, therefore, are dependent on groups representing technical disciplines (e.g., electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, cost engineering, etc.) supporting project management personnel (who maintain the relationship between us and our clients, and who are ultimately responsible for delivering projects to our clients safely, on time, and on budget). Additionally, all of our operating regions and divisions use common tools, policies, and procedures to manage and run their respective units. These include project review meetings, project performance evaluations, and project execution plans. The use of technology throughout our organization is highly uniform. Whether it is computer aided design and drafting (CADD) applications used by our engineering and design staff, or modeling programs used by the scientific and consulting staff, or scheduling, estimating, and cost control applications used by home office 9 Table of Contents personnel in support of our construction and maintenance activities, all of the service categories described above are equally affected by changes in technology as they occur in the economy at large. Furthermore, the types of information and internal reports used by management to monitor performance, evaluate results of operations, allocate resources, and otherwise manage the business support a single reportable segment. Accordingly, based on these similarities, we have concluded that our operations may be aggregated into one reportable segment for purposes of the disclosures included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Industry Groups and Markets We market our services to all clients where the scope of work required by their capital projects and programs is within our expertise. We offer full service consulting, planning, engineering, architecture, design, construction field services, construction management, modular fabrication, procurement, project management, asset management, operations and maintenance services to our clients worldwide. Within each market, we may offer specialty services unique to the sector or services which differentiate us from our competitors in the marketplace. The following table sets forth our revenues from each of the various industry groups and markets in which our clients operate for each of the last five fiscal years (in thousands of dollars): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 2007 2006 Refining Downstream (b) $ 2,876,059 $ 3,850,734 $ 3,525,838 $ 2,443,850 $ 2,208,952 National Government Programs (c) 2,314,548 2,148,668 1,784,150 1,363,564 1,097,933 Chemicals and Polymers 1,203,373 1,210,027 1,409,868 1,238,350 1,124,254 Infrastructure 938,978 933,519 935,333 681,367 546,999 Buildings (c) 869,248 793,041 900,115 573,566 556,618 Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 589,795 875,007 978,867 756,178 678,989 Oil & Gas Upstream 559,492 895,284 1,102,743 890,943 546,663 Industrial and Other (a)(b) 589,918 761,096 615,245 526,152 660,862 $ 9,941,411 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 $ 8,473,970 $ 7,421,270 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment (refer to Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below, for a description of this matter and its effects on the Companys fiscal 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as for a reconciliation to the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP). (b) Beginning in fiscal 2010, the industry group formerly called Energy & Refining Downstream has been renamed Refining Downstream, and revenues relating to projects for customers in the power industry have been reclassified to the category Industrial and Other. Industrial and Other now includes revenues from projects for our clients operating in the power; technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; food and consumer products; and basic resources industries, among others. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation. (c) Beginning in fiscal 2010, revenues relating to buildings projects performed for the U.S. federal government have been reclassified from the National Government Programs industry group to the Buildings market. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation. Refining Downstream Our typical refining projects range in size from several thousand dollars to multi billion dollar facilities and include new design and construction, revamps or expansions of existing plants, turnarounds, upgrades of individual process units within refineries, and long term maintenance services. In addition to our core services for our global refining clients, we provide process assessments, facility appraisals, feasibility studies, technology 10 Table of Contents evaluations, project finance structuring and support, and multi client subscription services. We are also a market leader in clean fuels, environmental, and compliance projects all meeting government regulatory requirements. Our modular construction capabilities, asset management/maintenance services, and formal client alliances help differentiate us in this industry. As a result of the close proximity of processing units in refineries when renovating or upgrading, using modular construction can decrease congestion at the construction site and can also provide enhanced safety, cost, and project execution benefits in remote locations. In this market, we also include power generation projects within our clients refining and processing facilities. Typical projects include simple and combined cycle power projects, industrial gas turbines, and emergency power generation stations. Services where we can offer specific assistance include procurement and commissioning of equipment. Oil & Gas Upstream In the exploration and production market, many of our upstream projects are in North America, Europe, India, and the Middle East and include offshore and deepwater facilities; heavy oil processing (e.g., oil sands thermal extraction projects); oil recovery through steam injection; and gas treating, gas gathering, and gas storage projects including extraction of commercially valuable elements of the gas stream, utilizing new technologies such as Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage (SAGD). Typical projects involve the design and construction of projects that recover oil and gas and include oil thermal recovery facilities either by in situ means (steam injection or steam assisted gravity drainage) or oil sands mining, upgraders, pipelines, gas plants, and CO2 Flood. These are typically large projects that may involve many of our offices and normally include our Mumbai, India office as a value added center to reduce client costs. We are also providing substantial maintenance and modification services for aging oil and gas facilities around the world, as well as offering unique subsea engineering capabilities that will expand the Company into the subsea completion and production market. In connection with the refining market, we also provide process assessments, facility appraisals, feasibility studies, technology evaluations, project finance structuring, and support services. National Government Programs We categorize our National Government Programs as generally relating to aerospace and defense programs or environmental programs. Aerospace and Defense Programs We provide an in depth range of science, engineering, and technical support services to the aerospace and defense industry. Long term clients include the Ministry of Defence in the U.K., NASA, the DoD, the U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), and the Australian Department of Defence. Specific to NASA is our ability to design, build, operate, and maintain highly complex facilities relating to space systems including test and evaluation facilities, launch facilities, and support infrastructure. We play an integral role for NASA in delivering support to virtually every major space program including the International Space Station; space shuttle recertification; space observatories; aerospace transportation systems; space propulsion systems; advanced materials research; and advanced research and development activities such as protein crystal growth experiments for the development of new drugs and vaccines. Our experience in the defense sector includes military systems acquisition management and strategic planning; operations and maintenance of test facilities and ranges; test and evaluation in computer, laboratory, 11 Table of Contents facility, and range environments; test facility computer systems instrumentation and diagnostics; and test facility design and build. We also provide systems engineering and integration of complex weapons and space systems, as well as hardware and software design of complex flight and ground systems. We have been providing advanced technology engineering services to the DoD for more than 50 years, and currently support major defense programs in the United Sates and internationally. We operate and maintain several DoD test centers and provide services such as aerodynamic testing of next generation fighter aircraft; propulsion testing for space programs; testing of the U.S. Armys next generation ground mobile weapon systems; and acquisition support for weapons systems such as air to air missile systems and precision guided smart weapons for high value targets. We assist in the acquisition and development of systems and equipment for Special Operations Forces as well as the development of biological, chemical, and nuclear detection and protection systems. We support and maintain enterprise information systems for government and commercial clients worldwide, ranging from the operation of complex computational networks to the development and validation of specific software applications. We support the DoD in a number of information technology programs including network design, integration, and support; command and control technology; development and maintenance of databases and customized applications; and security solutions. Environmental Programs We provide environmental investigation, permitting, restoration, remediation, engineering, and site operations services to a number of European, North American, and Middle Eastern government agencies. Our projects include hazardous and nuclear waste management and site cleanup and closure; the preparation of feasibility studies and environmental investigations; environmental design; and remediation services on several national programs, as well as compliance with various national environmental policies. The U.K.s mandatory climate change and energy saving program, the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, as well as the European Unions Energy Policy for 2011 2020, provide us tremendous opportunity to offer our carbon management, waste management, recycling, landfill, and methane emissions reduction services to our clients. In the U.S., much of our work relates to major environmental statutes, with particular emphasis on the U.S.s Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (CERCLA), as well as green infrastructure over the next 10 years. Our clients include the DoD, the U.K.s Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the United States Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE). Some of these projects require execution of capital projects involving sustainment, repair, and modernization of military facilities and infrastructure. Additionally, we support our clients in such areas as pollution prevention assessments; underground storage tank removal; contaminated soil and water remediation, monitoring and cleanup systems; long term water quality management plans; and air quality planning and permitting. Much of this type of work is in support of large infrastructure projects that are underway both in Europe and in North America. As a differentiating aspect of our support to clients, we provide asset management services in the form of long term infrastructure operations and maintenance. This is an integral part of our services for the U.S. Department of Energy (DoE). Asset management also includes building closures that involve deactivation, decommissioning, and demolition of government facilities. Chemicals and Polymers The types of projects we execute for our clients operating in the chemical and polymers industries include feedstock synthesis, chemical synthesis, and polymerization. This includes high pressure processes to produce 12 Table of Contents industrial chemicals and low pressure, multi product processes to produce specialty and fine chemicals. We have extensive knowledge of and experience with advanced polymerization reactors and state of the art, post reactor processing techniques to help bring new products and new facilities to market quickly and economically. One of our areas of focus, due to high feedstock costs, is gasification to produce the feeds for chemicals and fertilizers. Our clients in this sector focus on safety, reliability, and maintainability to keep operating costs down. To support this initiative, we apply best practices on capital and maintenance work by leveraging resources within our alliances and partnerships that in some cases involve more than 25 chemical facilities for one owner. As these multi site relationships increase in magnitude, the range of services we can provide our clients broadens and varies from providing on site planning and basic engineering services to completing an entire capital improvement program. Our goal is to guide and assist our chemical clients from planning and concept to a constructed and operating chemical facility. Specialty services we provide to our clients in these industries include project finance structuring, market analysis, facility appraisal, and procurement with global inspection capabilities as a value add to our core services. Another important aspect of serving our clients in the chemicals business is in the area of field services. We have contracts with major chemical producers worldwide to provide construction, on site maintenance, and turnaround activities. Many of these contracts are evergreen in nature, with relationships extending over many years due to our focus on safety, value, and client satisfaction and lead us to numerous formal alliances. Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology As companies in this industry continue to experience pressure to decrease product time to market, reduce costs, and increase return on investment, the types of services we provide have grown over the years to include modular construction, as well as consulting and strategic planning to help our clients complete capital projects faster and more efficiently. We are leaders in applying LEAN execution techniques to capital project execution. As an example, we increased our efforts to integrate commissioning and validation services, helping reduce the amount of time required to introduce a new drug into the marketplace. We provide our pharmaceuticals and biotechnology clients single point consulting, engineering, procurement, construction management, and validation (EPCMV) project delivery, enabling us to execute the industrys largest capital programs on a single responsibility basis. Typical projects in this sector include laboratories, research and development facilities, pilot plants, bulk active pharmaceutical ingredient production facilities, full scale biotechnology production facilities, and secondary manufacturing facilities. Regulatory compliance, state of the art technology, and increased efficiencies are critical issues to our clients in these industries. Such technology and knowledge encompasses containment, barrier technology, locally controlled environments, building systems automation, and off the site design and fabrication of facility modules. We also bring such expertise as vaccine production and purification and aseptic processing. In addition to providing our core services, we rely on our programming, target concept design, 3 D visualization capabilities, project controls, and automation capabilities to provide value to our clients. This enables us to better transition projects from the planning phase through engineering, construction, start up, commissioning, and validation phases as economically and efficiently as possible. As new product discovery and development drives capital spending, our multi domestic structure, as well as formal alliances and preferred provider agreements, enhances our ability to act as a program partner, help clients effectively manage their strategic investments, and deliver their capital programs worldwide. 13 Table of Contents Infrastructure Our strength in this industry segment includes transportation, transit, aviation, water and wastewater, and civil construction projects throughout North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. Representative clients include national government departments and agencies in the U.S. and the U.K.; state departments of transportation within the U.S.; other regional and local agencies; and private industry freight transport firms. In addition, we are growing our markets in the Middle East and Asia. Transportation infrastructure development and rehabilitation is a core competency of our infrastructure business. Our systems include alternative delivery methods such as design build, public private funding ventures, and enterprise management options. Typical projects include highways, bridges, transit, tunnels, airports, railroads, intermodal facilities, and maritime or port projects where our interdisciplinary teams work independently or as an extension of the clients staff. We also help shape this market by providing program advisory services relating to public private partnerships and tollways that result in improving mobility within a regions existing infrastructure with limited traditional transportation funding. Providing alternative financing methods has also proven successful in Europe where there is privatization of public infrastructure systems. We have a long history of serving international, regional, and municipal airports, as well as air carriers and military installations. While the aviation industry has faced pressure over recent years, our knowledge of air and landside design and technology, our ability to develop sustainable (green) programs, and our depth and breadth of expertise help our aviation clients streamline operations and reduce operating and maintenance costs. In water infrastructure, we help public and private sector clients develop or rehabilitate critical water resource systems. By integrating water, wastewater, air quality, and waste remediation experience, we provide these clients with the comprehensive expertise needed to deliver complex programs. Clients include regional wastewater treatment agencies, flood control agencies, manufacturers and utilities, local water suppliers, and military installations. We continue to develop water/wastewater conveyance systems and water flood defense projects. We have developed micro tunneling (trenchless technology) as a primary service and successfully applied this specialized process to such projects as water and utility distribution systems and pipelines. Buildings Our diversified client base encompassing both public and private sectors throughout the United States, many parts of Europe, and the Middle East relates primarily to institutional, commercial, government, and corporate buildings, including projects at many of the worlds leading medical and research centers and universities. We focus our efforts and resources in areas where capital spending initiatives drive demand and where changes and advances in technology require innovative, value adding solutions. We have specific capabilities in energy and power, master planning, and commissioning for office headquarters, aviation facilities, mission critical centers, municipal and civic buildings, courts and correctional facilities, retail, mixed use and commercial centers, healthcare and education campuses, and recreation complexes, including some of the most high profile entertainment facilities. We also specialize in the management of large national roll out store and distribution center programs for top, publicly traded retailers. Of particular significance is our growing success in applying our diversified technical skill base to both public and private sector clients requiring complete program management. Such contracts typically involve providing technical, professional, and construction services over multiple years to clients with whom we have long standing relationships and tenure of successful service, including alliance or framework programs. We also provide integrated facility management services for which we (often through joint ventures with third parties) assume full responsibility for the ongoing operation and maintenance of entire commercial or industrial complexes on behalf of the client. 14 Table of Contents Advanced technology clients require highly specialized buildings in the fields of medical research, nano science, biotechnology, and laser sciences. We offer total integrated design and construction management solutions to these projects, many of which are world leaders in their function. Our national building projects include large, multi year government building programs in the U.S. and Europe including renovating and modernizing terminal radar control centers, air traffic control towers, and other aviation facilities; planning and design services for offices, data centers and mission control facilities; and support for complex government sponsored laboratory and research facilities. U.S. government agencies we serve include the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA); the General Services Administration (GSA); the Internal Revenue Service (IRS); the U.S. Departments of State, Treasury, Agriculture, Homeland Security, and Defense; and the Army National Guard, among others. In the U.K., we are leading the Custodial Services project management delivery program to upgrade the U.K. prison stock and also some security led programs such as upgrading works to the Palace of Westminster and some Regional Police Authorities. We are providing our full range of services to the DoD on military family housing; quality of life projects; training, maintenance, and readiness facilities; and command and control centers, as well as military facilities supporting the DoDs global re basing program, the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) program. Power, Pulp & Paper, High Tech, Food and Consumer Products We provide a broad range of services to our power; pulp and paper; high technology manufacturing; food, beverage, and consumer products clients. Power In this market, we include power generation and cogeneration projects for the energy supply industry. Typical projects include simple and combined cycle power projects, cogeneration power plants, aeroderivative and industrial gas turbines, and emergency power generation stations. Services where we can offer specific assistance include procurement and commissioning of equipment. Pulp and Paper The pulp and paper industry has been consolidating for many years and several of the traditional pulp and paper clients have emerged as major consumer product companies. These clients have created new opportunities for us in non traditional areas, such as wall board plants and facilities that manufacture diapers and feminine care products. Typical projects range from small mill projects to complex, multi million dollar paper machine rebuilds, mill expansions, and the construction of new facilities. Pulp and paper projects encompass many areas of a mill, including pulping and bleaching, papermaking, chemical recovery, material handling, effluent treatment, and power and steam generation. In the area of papermaking, our expertise includes tissue and towel, coated and uncoated fine papers, newsprint, and linerboard. Our expertise also includes the converting and packaging of paper products for distribution and consumer use. We have been instrumental in designing and installing state of the art facilities for recycled fiber, de inking, and pulp bleaching. Our pulp and paper capability extends through our offices in the U.S., U.K., France, Spain, Italy, and Mexico to clients worldwide. A significant portion of our work consists of assisting our clients in their compliance with environmental regulations and standards that affect the pulp and paper industry. We monitor all of the key environmental regulations affecting our clients and offer services including compliance studies, permitting support, and design of pollution control systems. We also assist with complete permitting services, including associated air modeling, as well as compliance services regarding air pollutant standards and hazardous air pollutant emission limits from industrial boilers for our pulp and paper clients. 15 Table of Contents Technology and Manufacturing We provide our core services for a variety of high tech manufacturing and test facilities, particularly for clients in the automotive and industrial industries. We are a leader in providing support to automotive manufacturers and component suppliers for the supply of testing services and the management of test assets. Typical automotive projects range from conceptual design and feasibility studies to complete design build programs of: aero acoustic wind tunnels, engine test facilities, acoustic enclosures, transmission test stands; powertrain, environmental, emissions, altitude, and electromagnetic compatibility test facilities; in line and end of line component test stands; and computer based measurement and control systems. We also provide our services for advanced technology and research facilities, including facilities supporting research in fusion and fission energy, nanoscale materials, and high powered lasers and x rays to support important research activities in the United States, Europe, and the U.K. We also perform projects for clients operating in the semiconductor industry. Projects in the semiconductor industry are typically more complex than many other commercial facilities, requiring a greater emphasis on cleanroom and similar high end technologies. Our projects range from on site plant engineering and tool hook ups to multi million dollar state of the art wafer fabrication and crystal growing facilities used to produce solar energy cells, microprocessors for computers, and other consumer electronic devices. Food, Beverage and Consumer Products Influenced by discerning, health conscious consumers with increased awareness of nutrition and wellness, and as a result of growth in the industry, our clients are responding to consumer demands in Asia, Europe, and North America, as well as in certain developing countries. Producers are responding with innovation and renovation of core products, which is driving investments for new plants and retrofitting of existing ones. As a leading provider to the entire food, beverage, and consumer products supply chain, our global presence and capabilities allow us to help our clients with targeted expansion and new investments. Our food processing services include hygienic design, clean in place (CIP) systems, heat transfer systems, material handling of liquids and solids, refrigeration, and complying government requirements. The need to efficiently deliver the right consumer products at the right time remains critical to our clients. From facility design to raw materials processing to converting, packaging, and distribution, our vast depth of expertise helps our clients do just that. Our knowledge of food and beverage processing results in plants that are productive, efficient, and economical. Our clients are global and diverse, including chicken and meat processors, beer and soda companies, chocolate and candy makers, healthcare product companies, and major food manufacturers and distributors. Backlog Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to operations and maintenance (O&M) contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating 16 Table of Contents to the contracts. Our backlog includes expected revenues for contracts that are based on estimates. For information regarding our backlog, refer to Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below. Significant Customers The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government for each of the last five fiscal years: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 25.4% 20.3 % 16.8 % 16.6 % 16.4 % It is uncommon for a commercial customer to contribute 10% or more of the Companys total revenues. On occasion, however, we will perform a number of field services projects for a single customer in the same fiscal year which, primarily because of the amount of pass through costs (discussed below) that is included in revenue, will cause total revenue from that customer to exceed 10% of total consolidated revenues. For the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009 revenues earned from Motiva Enterprises LLC accounted for 12.2% of total consolidated revenues and for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 revenues earned from Valero Energy Corporation accounted for 10.2% of total consolidated revenues. Financial Information About Geographic Areas Selected financial information regarding the geographic areas in which we operate is included in Note 14 Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference. Contracts While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts we undertake, our contracts generally fall into three broad categories: cost reimbursable, fixed price, and guaranteed maximum price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts for each of the last five fiscal years: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Cost reimbursable 86 % 85 % 86 % 88 % 90 % Fixed price 13 14 12 10 9 Guaranteed maximum price 1 1 2 2 1 In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts (including those with the U.S. federal government) are subject to termination at the discretion of the client. In such situations, our contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination. When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement, and construction of a project or the maintenance of a clients plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment, and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. The following table sets forth the approximate amount of such pass through costs included in revenues for each of the last five fiscal years (in millions of dollars): 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 $2,723.3 $ 4,017.0 $ 3,517.4 $ 2,746.7 $ 2,680.7 17 Table of Contents Cost Reimbursable Contracts Cost reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount as specified in the contract; it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract. In general, we prefer cost reimbursable contracts because we believe the primary reason for awarding a contract to us should be our technical expertise and professional qualifications rather than price. Fixed Price Contracts Fixed price contracts include both lump sum bid contracts and negotiated fixed price contracts. Under lump sum bid contracts, we typically bid against other contractors based on specifications the client furnishes. This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid contracts to lead to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship based business model. Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract. In contrast, under a negotiated fixed price contract, we are selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client. Negotiated fixed price contracts frequently exist in single responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of the project. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts. Over the past five years, most of our fixed price work has been either negotiated fixed price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for project services, rather than turn key construction. Guaranteed Maximum Price Contracts Guaranteed maximum price contracts are performed in the same manner as cost reimbursable contracts; however, the total actual cost plus the fee cannot exceed the guaranteed price negotiated with the client. If the total actual cost of the contract exceeds the guaranteed maximum price, then we will bear at least some, if not all, of the excess. In those cases where the total actual cost and fee are less than the guaranteed price, we will often share the savings on a predetermined basis with the client. These contracts are not our preferred form of contract because we believe they often contribute to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship based business model. Competition For information regarding the competitive conditions in our business, please refer to Item 1A Risk Factors, below. Employees At October 1, 2010, we had approximately 38,500 full time, staff employees (including contract staff). Additionally, as of October 1, 2010, there were approximately 13,700 persons employed in the field on a project basis. The number of field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular time. Available Information You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C., 20549. In order to obtain information about the operation of the Public 18 Table of Contents Reference Room, a person may call the SEC at 1 800 732 0330. The SEC also maintains a site on the Internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SECs website is http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and download the various reports we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge from our website, http://www.jacobs.com. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Construction and maintenance sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we can be exposed to significant financial losses as well as civil and criminal liabilities. Construction and maintenance sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly regulated materials. On many sites we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures. If we fail to implement such procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, our employees and others may become injured. Unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, and raise our operating costs. Any of the foregoing could result in financial losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our projects can involve the handling of hazardous and other highly regulated materials, which, if improperly handled or disposed of, could subject us to civil and criminal liabilities. We are also subject to regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Although we maintain functional groups whose primary purpose is to ensure we implement effective health, safety, and environmental (HSE) work procedures throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites, the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to liability. Our safety record is critical to our reputation. Many of our clients require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid for contracts and many contracts provide for automatic termination or forfeiture of some or all of our contract fees or profit in the event we fail to meet certain measures. As a result, our failure to maintain adequate safety standards could result in reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Negative conditions in the credit and financial markets could impair our ability to operate our business, implement our acquisition strategy, and access our cash and short term investments. Although we finance much of our operations using cash provided by operations, at times we depend on the availability of credit to grow our business and to help fund business acquisitions. In addition, some of our clients depend of the availability of credit to help finance their capital projects. Due to the continuing instability of the credit markets in the U.S. and abroad, the availability of credit has continued to be relatively difficult or expensive to obtain in spite of government efforts to increase liquidity and hold or reduce interest rates. This situation could negatively impact our clients ability to fund their projects and, therefore, utilize our services, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the risk that the counterparties to our credit agreements may go bankrupt if they suffer catastrophic demand on their liquidity that will prevent them from fulfilling their contractual obligations to us. We also routinely enter into contracts with counterparties including vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors that may be negatively impacted by events in the credit markets. If those counterparties are unable to perform their obligations to us or our clients, we may be required to provide additional services or make alternate arrangements with other parties to ensure adequate performance and delivery of services to our clients. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we typically bill our clients for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our clients delaying or failing to pay our invoices. In weak economic environments, we may experience increased delays 19 Table of Contents and failures due to, among other reasons, a diminution in our clients access to the credit markets. If one or more clients delays in paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, our cash balances and short term investments are maintained in accounts held by major banks and financial institutions located primarily in North America, Europe, and Asia. Some of our accounts hold deposits in amounts that exceed available insurance. Although none of the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and investments have gone into bankruptcy or forced receivership, or have been seized by their governments, there is a risk that this may occur in the future. If this were to occur, we would be at risk of not being able to access our cash which may result in a temporary liquidity crisis that could impede our ability to fund operations. Our vulnerability to the cyclical nature of the markets in which our clients operate is exacerbated during economic downturns. We provide technical, professional, construction, and O&M services to clients operating in a number of markets including oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; programs for various national governments, including the U.S. federal government; chemicals and polymers; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; infrastructure; buildings; and other, general industrial and consumer businesses and markets (such as technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; food and consumer products; and mining and minerals). These markets and the resulting demand for our services have been, and we expect will continue to be, cyclical and subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and changes in client spending, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. Current global economic conditions have negatively impacted our clients ability and willingness to fund their projects. They have also caused our clients to reduce their capital expenditures, alter the mix of services purchased, seek more favorable price and other contract terms, and otherwise slow their spending on our services. For example, the precipitous increase in crude oil prices followed by their collapse in calendar year 2008 caused several of our clients operating in the upstream oil and gas market to re examine a number of their large capital projects, which resulted in delays and cancellations of contracts previously awarded to us. In the public sector, declines in state tax revenues as well as other economic declines may result in lower state and local government spending. These conditions have reduced the demand for our services, which has had a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. Current economic conditions also make it extremely difficult for our clients, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause businesses to continue to slow spending on our services. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery worldwide or in our clients markets. In addition, our business has traditionally lagged recoveries in the general economy and, therefore, may not recover as quickly as the economy at large. A continuation or worsening of current weak economic conditions or a reduction in government spending could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regardless of economic or market conditions, investment decisions by our customers may vary by location or as a result of other factors like the availability of labor or relative construction cost. Because we are dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, we are therefore vulnerable to changes in our clients markets and investment decisions. As a result, our past results have varied considerably and may continue to vary depending upon the demand for future projects in the markets and the locations in which we operate. Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our customers investment decisions and therefore subject us to risks of cancellation, delays in existing work, or changes in the timing and funding of new awards. Commodity prices can affect our customers in a number of ways. For example, for those customers that produce commodity products such as oil, gas, copper, or fertilizers, fluctuations in price can have a direct effect 20 Table of Contents on their profitability and cash flow and, therefore, their willingness to continue to invest or make new capital investments. To the extent our customers defer new investments or cancel or delay existing projects, the demand for our services decreases, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Commodity prices can also strongly affect the costs of projects. Rising commodity prices can negatively impact the potential returns on investments that are planned, as well as those in progress, and result in customers deferring new investments or canceling or delaying existing projects. Cancellations and delays have affected our past results and may continue to do so in significant and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel, including engineers, architects, designers, craft personnel, and corporate management professionals who have the required experience and expertise. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. In certain geographic areas, for example, we may not be able to satisfy the demand for our services because of our inability to successfully hire and retain qualified personnel. In addition, as some of our key personnel approach retirement age, we need to have appropriate succession plans in place and to successfully implement such plans. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel or effectively implement appropriate succession plans, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The cost of providing our services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. For example, the uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contracts. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur cost resulting from excess staff, reductions in staff, or redundancy of facilities that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions, and results of operations. The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors, and vendors presenting claims to us for, among other things, recovery of costs related to certain projects. Similarly, we occasionally present change orders and other claims to our clients, subcontractors, and vendors. If we fail to document properly the nature of our claims and change orders or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating reasonable settlements with our clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we could incur cost overruns, reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for a project. Additionally, irrespective of how well we document the nature of our claims and change orders, the cost to prosecute and defend claims and change orders can be significant. We are a party to litigation in the normal course of business. Most litigation with which we are involved as a defendant relates to workers compensation, personal injury, environmental, employment/labor, professional liability, and similar matters. We can be exposed to claims and litigation if, for example, there is a failure at any of the projects for which we have provided engineering or other services. Such claims could relate to, among other things, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, property damage, pollution, and environmental damage and be brought by our clients or third parties, such as those who use or reside near our clients projects. We can also be exposed to claims if we agreed that a project will achieve certain performance standards and those standards are not met. In many of our contracts with clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we agree to retain or assume potential liabilities for damages, penalties, losses, and other exposures relating to projects that could result in claims that greatly exceed the anticipated profits relating to those contracts. 21 Table of Contents We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. Our insurance programs have varying coverage limits and maximums. In addition, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under these programs. As a result, we may be subject to future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured. Our insurers are also subject to business risk and, as a result, one or more of them may be unable to fulfill their insurance obligations due to insolvency or otherwise. Pending or future claims against us could result in professional liability, product liability, criminal liability, warranty obligations, and other liabilities which, to the extent we are not insured against a loss or our insurer fails to provide coverage, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance. Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions, and regulations including oversight audits by various government authorities and profit and cost controls. Government contracts are also exposed to uncertainties associated with funding. Contracts with the U.S. federal government, for example, are subject to the uncertainties of Congressional funding. Governments are typically under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for government programs may even be eliminated. As a result, our government clients may terminate our contracts for convenience or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice. Since government contracts represent a significant percentage of our revenues (those with the U.S. federal government represented approximately 25.4% of our total revenue in fiscal 2010), the loss of such contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, since government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio economic requirements, we must comply with such requirements. For example, for contracts with the U.S. federal government, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act, and DoD security regulations. We must also comply with various other government regulations and requirements as well as various statutes related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping, and accounting. These regulations and requirements affect how we transact business with our clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Government contracts also contain terms that expose us to heightened levels of risk and potential liability than non government contracts. This includes, for example, unlimited indemnification obligations. We also are subject to government audits, investigations, and proceedings, and so called qui tam actions brought by individuals or the government under the U.S. Federal False Claims Act or under similar state and local laws. For example, government agencies routinely review and audit government contractors to determine whether allowable costs are in accordance with applicable regulations. These audits can result in adjustments to the amount of contract costs we believe are reimbursable by the agencies and the amount of our overhead costs allocated to the agencies. If we violate a rule or regulation, fail to comply with a contractual or other requirement or do not satisfy an audit, a variety of penalties can be imposed including monetary damages and criminal and civil penalties. In addition, any or all of our government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed. The occurrence of any of these actions could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We bear the risk of cost overruns in fixed price and guaranteed maximum price contracts. We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if costs increase above our estimates. For fiscal 2010, approximately 14% of our revenues were earned under contracts that were either fixed price or guaranteed maximum price in nature. For these contracts, we bear the risk of paying some, if not all, of any cost overruns. Under fixed price and guaranteed maximum price contracts, contract prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates that are based on a number of assumptions, including those about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, there are errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications, or if circumstances change due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, changes in the costs of raw materials, or our vendors or subcontractors inability to perform, then cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. If the project is significant, or there are one or more issues that impact multiple projects, costs overruns could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by our clients and, therefore, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues or earnings. Additionally, even if fully performed, our backlog may not be a good indicator of our future gross margins. As of the end of fiscal 2010, our backlog totaled approximately $13.2 billion. There is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized as revenues in the amounts reported or, if realized, will result in profits. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. Our backlog includes expected revenues for contracts that are based on estimates. Projects can remain in backlog for extended periods of time because of the nature of the project and the timing of the particular services required by the project. The risk of contracts in backlog being cancelled or suspended generally increases during periods of wide spread economic slowdowns. Additionally, the way we perform on our individual contracts can affect greatly our gross margins and hence, future profitability. In some markets, there is a continuing trend towards cost reimbursable contracts with incentive fee arrangements. Typically, our incentive fees are based on such things as achievement of target completion dates or target costs, overall safety performance, overall client satisfaction, and other performance criteria. If we fail to meet such targets or achieve the expected performance standards, we may receive a lower, or even zero, incentive fee resulting in lower gross margins. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the contracts in backlog, assuming they produce the revenues currently expected, will generate gross margins at the rates we have realized in the past. Our use of joint ventures and partnerships exposes us to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. As is common in the industry, we perform certain contracts as a member of joint ventures, partnerships, and similar arrangements. This situation exposes us to a number of risks, including the risk that our partners may be unable to fulfill their obligations to us or our clients. Our partners may also be unable or unwilling to provide the required levels of financial support to the partnerships. If these circumstances occur, we may be required to pay financial penalties or liquidated damages, provide additional services, or make additional investments to ensure adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. Under agreements with joint and several liabilities, we could be liable for both our obligations and those of our partners. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents In addition, we participate in joint ventures and similar arrangements in which we are not the controlling partner. In these cases, we have limited control over the actions of the joint venture. In addition, these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. To the extent the controlling partner makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control problems arise within the joint venture, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on third parties to complete many of our contracts. Much of the work performed under our contracts is performed by third party subcontractors we hire. We also rely on third party equipment manufacturers or suppliers to provide much of the equipment and materials used for projects. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for subcontractors or equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially in a lump sum or a fixed price contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a subcontractor, supplier, or manufacturer fails to provide services, supplies or equipment as required under a contract for any reason, we may be required to source these services, equipment or supplies to other third parties on a delayed basis or at a higher price than anticipated, which could impact contract profitability. In the current economic environment, third parties may find it difficult to obtain sufficient financing to help fund their operations. The inability to obtain financing could adversely affect a third partys ability to provide materials, equipment or services which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Maintaining adequate bonding capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win fixed price contracts. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance or payment bonds to our customers. These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. Historically, we have had adequate bonding capacity but, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the suretys sole discretion. In addition, because of an overall lack of worldwide bonding capacity, we may find it difficult to find sureties who will provide required levels of bonding or such bonding may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that our bonding capacity will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new contracts that require such bonding could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we fail to comply with federal, state, local or foreign governmental requirements, our business may be adversely affected. We are subject to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that affect our business. For example, we are subject to a variety of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous or waste materials and the remediation of contamination associated with the releases of hazardous substances and human health and safety. These laws and regulations and the risk of attendant litigation can cause significant delays to a project and add significantly to its cost. Violations of regulations could subject us and our management to civil and criminal penalties and other liabilities. Various U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations may impose liability for property damage and costs of investigation and cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances on property currently or 24 Table of Contents previously owned by us or arising out of our waste management or environmental remediation activities. These laws may impose responsibility and liability without regard to knowledge of or causation of the presence of contaminants. The liability under these laws is joint and several. We have potential liabilities associated with our past waste management and other activities and with our current and prior ownership of various properties. The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of unforeseen clean up obligations at these or other sites could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. When we perform our services, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions. We may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers, and third parties as a result of such exposures. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities arising under environmental or safety laws. A claim, if not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Such laws, regulations and policies are reviewed periodically and any changes could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could, for example, relax or repeal laws and regulations relating to the environment, which could result in a decline in the demand for our environmental services and, in turn, could negatively impact our revenue. Our failure to comply with such laws or regulations, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we and many of our clients operate in highly regulated environments, which may require us or our clients to obtain, and to comply with, federal, state, and local government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with, or the loss or modification of, the conditions of permits or approvals may subject us to penalties or other liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and result of operations. Our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders. Although we have policies and procedures to comply with U.S. and foreign international trade laws, the violation of such laws could subject the Company and its employees to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and therefore, our ability to do business. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits. Misconduct, fraud, non compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other foreign corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws, and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, we regularly provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win contracts and result in reduced revenues and profits and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The loss of one or a few customers could have an adverse impact on us. A few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue and or backlog in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. For example, in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009, and fiscal 2008, approximately 25.4%, 20.3%, and 16.8%, respectively, of our revenue was earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government. Although we have long standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce, delay, or cancel their contracts at any time. Our loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We engage in a highly competitive business. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could lose market share and our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We face intense competition to provide technical, professional, and construction services to clients. The extent of such competition varies by industry, geographic market, and project type. For example, with respect to our construction and operations and maintenance services, clients generally award large projects to large contractors, which may give our larger competitors an advantage when bidding for these projects. Conversely, with respect to our engineering, design, architectural, and consulting services, low barriers of entry can result in competition with smaller, newer competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience a loss of market share or reduced profitability or both, which if significant, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our larger competitors for engineering, construction, and maintenance services for process plants include Bechtel, Fluor, Foster Wheeler, KBR, Aker Kvaerner, Technip, WorleyParsons, the Shaw Group, and AMEC. In the area of buildings, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as HDR, HOK, AECOM, and Turner. In the area of infrastructure, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as URS, Parsons Brinckerhoff, HNTB, Tetra Tech, Parsons, and W.S. Atkins. In the area of national government programs, our principal competitors include several of the competitors listed above as well as SAIC, CH2M Hill, Weston, Lockheed Martin, and Computer Sciences Corporation. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in Risk Factors, our international operations are also exposed to additional risks and uncertainties including unfavorable political developments and weak foreign economies. For fiscal 2010, approximately 30% of our revenues was earned from clients outside the U.S. Our business is dependent on the continued success of our international operations, and we expect our international operations to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. At a minimum, our reported financial condition and results of operations are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. In addition, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: Recessions in foreign economies and the impact on our costs of doing business in those countries; 26 Table of Contents Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including logistical and communication challenges; Unexpected changes in foreign government policies and regulatory requirements; Lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; Renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts; The adoption of new, and the expansion of existing, trade or other restrictions; Embargoes; Acts of war, civil unrest, force majeure, and terrorism; The ability to finance efficiently our foreign operations; Social, political, and economic instability; Expropriation of property; Tax increases; Limitations on the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; and U.S. government policies. To the extent our international operations are affected by unexpected or adverse economic, political and other conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our business strategy relies in part on acquisitions to sustain our growth. Acquisitions of other companies present certain risks and uncertainties. Our business strategy involves growth through, among other things, the acquisition of other companies. Acquiring companies presents a number of risks, including: Difficulties relating to combining previously separate entities into a combined, integrated, and efficient business; The effects of diverting managements attention from day to day operations to matters involving the integration of acquired companies; Assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition was negotiated; Failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; Potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations; Potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition; Difficulties relating to assimilating the personnel, services, and systems of an acquired business and to assimilating marketing and other operational capabilities; and Difficulties in applying and integrating our system of internal controls to an acquired business. In addition, there is no assurance that we will continue to locate suitable acquisition targets or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. The current credit markets may make it more difficult and costly to finance acquisitions. Acquisitions may also bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced. 27 Table of Contents In the event we issue stock as consideration for certain acquisitions we may make, we could dilute share ownership. One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities. Accordingly, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S 4 on December 7, 2007. If we issue additional equity securities pursuant to this shelf registration statement or otherwise, such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing shareholders individual ownership percentages in the Company. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock because of a number of factors, including: Fluctuations in the spending patterns of our government and commercial customers; The number and significance of projects executed during a quarter; Unanticipated changes in contract performance, particularly with contracts that have funding limits; The timing of resolving change orders, requests for equitable adjustments, and other contract adjustments; Delays incurred in connection with a project; Weather conditions that delay work at project sites; The timing of expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions or other corporate initiatives; Natural disasters or other crises, such as the hurricanes affecting oil producing regions like the Gulf of Mexico; Staff levels and utilization rates; Changes in prices of services offered by our competitors; and General economic and political conditions. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare our financial statements. In preparing our financial statements, our management is required under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: Recognition of contract revenue, costs, profit or losses in applying the principles of percentage of completion accounting; Estimated amounts for expected project losses, warranty costs, contract close out or other costs; Recognition of recoveries under contract change orders or claims; Collectibility of billed and unbilled accounts receivable and the need and amount of any allowance for doubtful accounts; The amount of reserves necessary for self insured risks; Accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves; Valuation of assets acquired, and liabilities, goodwill, and intangible assets assumed, in acquisitions; Valuation of stock based compensation; and The determination of liabilities under pension and other post retirement benefit programs. 28 Table of Contents Our actual business and financial results could differ from our estimates of such results, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. An impairment charge of goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we are required to test goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for possible impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing it over time. As of October 1, 2010, we had $1.1 billion of goodwill, representing 23.9% of our total assets of $4.7 billion. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill at the end of the third quarter of our fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in a reporting units market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of our business, potential government actions toward our facilities, and other factors. If the fair value of our reporting units is less than their carrying value, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken. For a further discussion of goodwill impairment testing, please see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. Rising inflation, interest rates, and or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services as well as decrease our profit on our existing contracts, in particular with respect to our fixed price contracts. Rising inflation, interest rates, or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services. In addition, we bear all of the risk of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are fixed price and may be at risk to the effects of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are guaranteed maximum price. Because a significant portion of our revenues are earned from cost reimbursable type contracts (approximately 86% during fiscal 2010), the effects of inflation on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few years have been generally minor. However, if we expand our business into markets and geographic areas where fixed price and lump sum work is more prevalent, inflation may have a larger impact on our results of operations in the future. Therefore, increases in inflation, interest rates or construction costs could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover or change of control. We are a Delaware corporation. Certain anti takeover provisions of the Delaware general corporation law impose restrictions on the ability of others to acquire control of us. In addition, certain provisions of our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover. For example: Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three year terms; Only our Board of Directors can fill vacancies on the board; There are various restrictions on the ability of a shareholder to nominate a director for election; and Our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preference shares. These types of provisions, as well as our Shareholder Rights Agreement, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Accordingly, stockholders may be limited in the ability to obtain a premium for their shares. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES Our properties consist primarily of office space within general, commercial office buildings located in major cities primarily in the following countries: United States; Abu Dhabi; Austria; Australia; Belgium; Canada; China; the Czech Republic; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; India; Italy; Mexico; The Netherlands; Poland; Puerto Rico; Republic of Ireland; Saudi Arabia; Singapore; Spain; Sweden; United Arab Emirates; and the U.K. Such space is used for operations (providing technical, professional, and other home office services), sales, and administration. Most of our properties are leased. In addition, we own facilities located in Charleston, South Carolina which serve as our principal manufacturing and fabrication site for our modular construction activities. The total amount of space used by us for all of our operations is approximately 6.5 million square feet. We also lease smaller, project offices located throughout the U.S., the U.K., and in certain other countries. We also rent a portion of our construction equipment on a short term basis. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information required by this Item 3 is included in Note 11 Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information regarding the Companys executive officers is set forth under the caption Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance in Part III, Item 10, of this Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference. 30 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Jacobs common stock is listed on the NYSE and trades under the symbol JEC. We provided to the NYSE, without qualification, the required annual certification of our Chief Executive Officer regarding compliance with the NYSEs corporate governance listing standards. The following table sets forth the low and high sales prices of a share of our common stock during each of the fiscal quarters presented, based on the NYSE consolidated transaction report: Low SalesPrice High SalesPrice Fiscal 2010: First quarter $ 33.70 $ 47.90 Second quarter 35.02 46.30 Third quarter 34.91 50.68 Fourth quarter 34.39 40.00 Fiscal 2009: First quarter $ 26.00 $ 54.19 Second quarter 30.16 54.71 Third quarter 36.75 47.35 Fourth quarter 36.18 49.73 Holders According to the records of our transfer agent, there were 1,467 shareholders of record as of November 15, 2010. Dividends Our policy is to use cash flows from operations to fund future growth, pay down debt, and, subject to market conditions, repurchase common stock under a stock buy back program approved by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, we have not paid a cash dividend since fiscal 1984. Although our Board of Directors periodically reviews and considers the merits of paying cash dividends and buying back shares of our common stock, we currently have no plans to pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock in the foreseeable future. 31 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph shows the changes over the past five year period in the value of $100 invested at the end of fiscal 2005 in (1) the common stock of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., (2) the Standard & Poors 500 Index, and (3) the Dow Jones Heavy Construction Group Index. The values of each investment are based on share price appreciation, with reinvestment of all dividends, provided any were paid. The investments are assumed to have occurred at the beginning of the period presented. Legend Symbol Total Returns Index For: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. 100.00 110.86 224.21 161.14 136.35 114.82 S&P 500 Index 100.00 110.78 128.98 100.66 93.70 103.24 Dow Jones US Heavy Construction 100.00 119.22 240.89 154.24 146.33 138.33 The stock performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 32 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents selected financial data for each of the last five fiscal years. This selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Amounts are presented in thousands, except for per share information: 2010 (1) 2009 2008 2007 2006 Results of Operations: Revenues $ 9,915,517 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 $ 8,473,970 $ 7,421,270 Net earnings attributable to Jacobs 245,974 399,854 420,742 287,130 196,883 Financial Position: Current ratio 2.23 to 1 2.17 to 1 1.74 to 1 1.78 to 1 1.75 to 1 Working capital $ 1,527,589 $ 1,522,548 $ 1,173,237 $ 1,001,644 $ 776,766 Current assets 2,767,042 2,818,449 2,750,234 2,278,078 1,817,961 Total assets 4,683,917 4,428,614 4,278,238 3,389,421 2,853,884 Long term debt 509 737 55,675 40,450 77,673 Total Jacobs stockholders equity 2,859,048 2,625,913 2,245,147 1,843,662 1,423,214 Return on average equity 8.97 % 16.42 % 20.58 % 17.58 % 15.21 % Backlog: Technical professional services $ 7,588,900 $ 8,209,300 $ 8,085,200 $ 6,188,500 $ 5,153,400 Field services 5,613,100 7,010,100 8,611,400 7,397,300 4,624,300 Total $ 13,202,000 $ 15,219,400 $ 16,696,600 $ 13,585,800 $ 9,777,700 Per Share Information: Basic earnings per share $ 1.98 $ 3.26 $ 3.47 $ 2.42 $ 1.69 Diluted earnings per share 1.96 3.21 3.38 2.35 1.64 Stockholders equity 22.71 21.14 18.30 15.34 12.06 Average Number of Shares of Common Stock and Common Stock Equivalents Outstanding (Diluted) 125,790 124,534 124,357 122,226 120,373 Common Shares Outstanding At Year End 125,909 124,230 122,701 120,222 117,992 (1) Includes non recurring, after tax charges totaling $66.1 million, or $0.52 per basic and diluted share, relating to the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment (refer to Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below, for a description of these matters and their effects on the Companys fiscal 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as for a reconciliation to the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP). 33 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long term engineering and construction type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entitys results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting polices are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage of completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in schedule; the cost of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. In some of the markets we serve there is an increasing trend towards cost reimbursable contracts with incentive fee arrangements. In certain instances, we base our incentive fees on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project. We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims. Certain cost reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly. 34 Table of Contents As is common in the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. For certain of these joint ventures (i.e., where we have an undivided interest in the assets and liabilities of the venture), we recognize our proportionate share of joint venture revenues, costs and operating profit in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For other investments in engineering and construction joint ventures, we use the equity method of accounting. Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to compute the grant date fair value of awards of equity instruments. The Black Scholes model requires the use of highly subjective assumptions in order to compute the hypothetical fair value of a stock option. Changes in these assumptions can cause drastically different values being assigned to a stock option. The value assigned to any stock options that may be awarded in the future as well as the related expense associated with any such awards will be dependent on the assumptions used at the time of award. Accounting for Pension Plans The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2010 ranged from 2.2% to 8.0%; this compares to a range of 2.3% to 8.0% for fiscal 2009. We believe the range of rates we applied for fiscal 2010 reflects the long term returns expected on the plans assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.5% to 5.6% in fiscal 2009 to a range of 2.1% to 5.1% in fiscal 2010. These assumptions represent the Companys best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled. Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the our net pension benefit obligation (PBO) at October 1, 2010 was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $182.0 million, and the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2010 would be lower (higher) by approximately $7.0 million. Similarly, if the expected return on plan assets were increased (decreased) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2011 would decrease (increase) by approximately $7.9 million. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used. Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts. 35 Table of Contents In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such insurance reserves in our consolidated results of operations. In addition, as a contractor providing services to the United States federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations. Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as Europe and Non Europe. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2010 Form 10 K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services. Our geography based reporting units reflect the Companys organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions. U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. We determined that a market approach is an appropriate method for valuing our reporting units in light of its common use as a technique for valuing businesses in general. Using this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Companys overall average market earnings multiple. Since the activities of each reporting unit approximates that of the Company overall, we concluded that the use of the Companys market multiple for purposes of applying the market based valuation approach was reasonable. We also believe that the use of this multiple is appropriate considering that both reporting units have qualitative characteristics that are generally consistent with those of the parent company. Those characteristics include size in terms of resources (i.e., personnel); a large, diverse client base; broad geographic reach; and a broad range of design, engineering, and construction and construction management capabilities. The determination of reporting units and the selection of the valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the exercise of judgment by management. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties. As mentioned above, the key inputs used in the valuation model are the after tax earnings of our reporting units and the Companys market driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 were approximately 14, 15, and 31, respectively. In the event either the after tax earnings of the Companys reporting units or the Companys market earnings multiples decline significantly after the date the annual impairment test is performed, the Company will re perform the test at a date closer to fiscal year end. Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for fiscal years 2010 and 2009. 36 Table of Contents Changes in the inputs used in our valuation model (i.e., declines in the Companys average earnings multiple or the after tax earnings of our reporting units) could result in an indication of possible impairment of goodwill in the future. Fiscal 2010 Overview There were two events that occurred during fiscal 2010 that significantly affected the comparability of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 to its consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2009 and 2008: The Houston Sublease In response to the continuing effects brought on by the global recession, the Company initiated certain cost reduction measures during fiscal 2009. As part of those measures, we ceased using one of our offices located in Houston, Texas, and entered into a sublease for the entire property. This transaction occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Accordingly, included in net earnings for fiscal 2010 is a pre tax charge of $11.4 million relating to this real estate transaction. Net of the effects on the Companys incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the Houston Sublease resulted in a net, after tax charge of $5.8 million, or $0.04 per diluted share. The SIVOM Judgment During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (SIVOM). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Included in this amount is a $25.9 million write off of a claim receivable. The balance of the charge reflects the cash payments the Company made to the SIVOM, net of cash payments the Company received. Net of the effects of the charge on the Companys long term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share. In this MD&A, we discuss and analyze the Companys results of operations for fiscal 2010 before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment. Although such information is non U.S. GAAP in nature, it is presented because Management believes it provides a better view of the Companys operating results for the readers of this Annual Report on Form 10 K to assess the Companys performance and operating trends. 37 Table of Contents The following table presents (i) the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment (which is non U.S. GAAP); (ii) the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Litigation; and (iii) the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 in accordance with U.S. GAAP (in thousands, except earnings per share): Fiscal 2010 ConsolidatedResults of OperationsBefore the Effects ofthe Houston Subleaseand the SIVOMJudgment Effects of the HoustonSublease and theSIVOM Judgment Fiscal 2010ConsolidatedResults ofOperations(U.S. GAAP) Revenues $ 9,941,411 $ (25,894 ) $ 9,915,517 Costs and Expenses: Direct costs of contracts (8,524,271 ) (58,641 ) (8,582,912 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses (929,785 ) (2,737 ) (932,522 ) Operating Profit 487,355 (87,272 ) 400,083 Other Income (Expense): Interest income 3,647 1,144 4,791 Interest expense (5 ) (9,869 ) (9,874 ) Miscellaneous expense, net (3,066 ) (3,066 ) Total other income (expense), net 576 (8,725 ) (8,149 ) Earnings (Loss) Before Taxes 487,931 (95,997 ) 391,934 Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (175,543 ) 29,896 (145,647 ) Net Earnings (Loss) of the Group 312,388 (66,101 ) 246,287 Net (Income) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests (313 ) (313 ) Net Earnings (Loss) Attributable to Jacobs $ 312,075 $ (66,101 ) $ 245,974 Net Earnings (Loss) per Share Diluted $ 2.48 $ (0.52 ) $ 1.96 The Companys operating results for fiscal 2010 continue to be impacted by the global recession which began affecting the Company during the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The recession has caused many of our private sector clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. These economic conditions have also had a negative effect on many of our public sector clients as we have seen spending reductions by federal and state governments and the delay and curtailment of key infrastructure programs. The decline in revenues during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 occurred in most of the industries and markets we serve. With respect to the various categories of services we provide, the decline in revenues was more prevalent in the Field Services area of our business, and reflects the general decrease during the year in the amount of pass through costs we incurred on our projects. As discussed in last years MD&A, we implemented certain cost control measures last year in response to the effects of the recession. We reduced personnel and closed or re configured a number of our offices. The results of these actions contributed to a $10.5 million reduction in selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Although we continue to look for opportunities to reduce or minimize our operating costs, there is no guaranty that we will be able to identify additional opportunities and make further reductions. On the other hand, we are a very diversified business. We provide a wide range of services to customers operating in a wide range of industries and markets. Accordingly, we continue to believe that as the global economy begins to recover, and depending on which industries and markets start their recovery first, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on whatever increased capital spending occurs, both domestically and 38 Table of Contents internationally. Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $938.8 million at October 1, 2010. Our debt to equity ratio was 2.8% at the end of fiscal 2010, and we have over $257.1 million available under our various credit facilities. Results of Operations General Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories: Project Services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, and similar services); Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which includes services performed in connection with a wide variety of scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities); Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct hire construction and construction management services); and Operations and Maintenance services (which includes services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients as well as services involving process plant maintenance). The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single responsibility, design build contracts, to services required in the post start up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services. The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 Technical Professional Services Revenues: Project Services $ 4,224,898 $ 4,644,043 $ 5,128,456 Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 888,405 894,446 770,223 Total Technical Professional Services Revenues 5,113,303 5,538,489 5,898,679 Field Services Revenues: Construction (a) 3,747,995 4,763,640 4,239,439 Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 1,080,113 1,165,247 1,114,041 Total Field Services Revenues 4,828,108 5,928,887 5,353,480 $ 9,941,411 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. 39 Table of Contents We focus our services on clients operating in certain industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 Refining Downstream (b) $ 2,876,059 $ 3,850,734 $ 3,525,838 National Government Programs (c) 2,314,548 2,148,668 1,784,150 Chemicals and Polymers 1,203,373 1,210,027 1,409,868 Infrastructure 938,978 933,519 935,333 Buildings (c) 869,248 793,041 900,115 Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 589,795 875,007 978,867 Oil & Gas Upstream 559,492 895,284 1,102,743 Industrial and Other (a)(b) 589,918 761,096 615,245 $ 9,941,411 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. (b) Beginning in fiscal 2010, the industry group formerly called Energy & Refining Downstream has been renamed Refining Downstream, and revenues relating to projects for customers in the power industry have been reclassified to the category Industrial and Other. Industrial and Other now includes revenues from projects for our clients operating in the power; technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; food and consumer products; and basic resources industries, among others. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation. (c) Beginning in fiscal 2010, revenues relating to buildings projects performed for the U.S. federal government have been reclassified from the National Government Programs industry group to the Buildings market. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation Fiscal 2010 (before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment) Compared to Fiscal 2009 We recorded net earnings of $312.1 million, or $2.48 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010, compared to net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for fiscal 2009. Revenues for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 totaled $9.9 billion, and represents a decrease of $1.5 billion, or 13.3%, as compared to $11.5 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for clients operating in many of the industry groups and markets we serve were significantly lower as compared to fiscal 2009. The larger decreases occurred in the Refining Downstream; Oil & Gas Upstream; and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industry groups and markets. These declines relate to the normal winding down and completion of large projects, combined with the lack of new project awards. These industry groups and markets have also been significantly impacted by the global recession, causing many clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. Also contributing to the decline in revenues within these industry groups and markets was a $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, decrease in pass through costs (discussed below). In contrast, revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $165.9 million, or 7.7%, as compared to last year. Most of the increase relates to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, other technical services projects. 40 Table of Contents Similarly, revenues during fiscal 2010 relating to Buildings projects increased by $76.2 million, or 9.6%, as compared to last year. The increase relates to spending for the design of technical buildings. For the fiscal year 2010 we earned $176.8 million in revenues for projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.4 billion, or 14.0%, to $8.5 billion, compared to $9.9 billion for fiscal 2009. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, to $2.7 billion, compared to $4.0 billion for fiscal 2009. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.1 billion, or 18.6%, to $4.8 billion, compared to $5.9 billion for fiscal 2009. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.7% for fiscal 2010, compared to 86.4% for fiscal 2009. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2010 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2010 decreased by $10.5 million, or 1.1%, to $929.8 million, compared to $940.3 million for fiscal 2009. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in head count and the amount of spending required to support our technical professional services activities, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, it is not unusual to see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2010 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2010 decreased by $133.2 million, or 21.5%, to $487.4 million, compared to $620.6 million for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 4.9% for fiscal 2010, compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2009. This decrease in operating profit is due primarily to the overall decline in business volume. Interest income for fiscal 2010 decreased by $9.5 million, to $3.6 million, compared to $13.1 million for fiscal 2009. Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2010, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. 41 Table of Contents Interest expense for fiscal 2010 was nearly zero compared to $2.9 million for fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over the past several years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully in fiscal 2010. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 36.0% for fiscal 2010 unchanged from fiscal 2009. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 The Companys fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30 (determined on the basis of the number of workdays) and, accordingly, an additional week of activity is added every five to six years, such as in fiscal 2009. We recorded net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009, compared to net earnings of $420.7 million, or $3.38 per diluted share, for fiscal 2008. Although consolidated revenues for fiscal 2009 increased by $215.2 million, or 1.9%, from fiscal 2008, most of the increase occurred during the first two quarters of fiscal 2009 as the Company completed a number of projects for clients operating in several of the industries and markets we serve. During the second half of fiscal 2009, as the global economy continued to slow, revenues dropped off significantly, while project delays increased and awards of new contracts also slowed. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for clients operating in the Refining Downstream and the Oil & Gas Upstream industries increased a total of $117.4 million, or 2.5%, from fiscal 2008. All of the increase related to projects for clients operating in the energy & refinery sector and reflects the ramping up of work performed at a large, U.S. oil refinery. This increase was off set in part by the winding down of work on certain projects in the upstream sector of the petroleum market that were awarded to the Company in prior years when oil prices were at historically high levels. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $364.5 million, or 20.4%, from fiscal 2008. Most of the increase continues to relate to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, and other technical services. Although the Company performed services during fiscal 2009 for projects that were funded in part under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), such revenues were not significant. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries, and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industries as well as the Buildings market all declined as compared to fiscal 2008, as clients reviewed their capital expenditure plans in light of the global recession and delayed the release of new projects. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2009 increased $388.8 million, or 4.1%, to $9.9 billion, compared to $9.5 billion for fiscal 2008. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through cost we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these 42 Table of Contents amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs for fiscal 2009 increased $499.6 million, or 14.2%, to $4.0 billion, compared to $3.5 billion for fiscal 2008. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues for fiscal 2009 increased $575.4 million, or 10.7%, to $5.9 billion, compared to $5.4 billion for fiscal 2008. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 86.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 84.6% for fiscal 2008. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The increase in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 was due primarily to higher levels of pass through costs combined with a slight decrease in the margin rates earned on our technical professional services revenues. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2009 decreased by $151.1 million, or 13.8%, to $940.3 million, compared to $1.1 billion for fiscal 2008. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in head count and the spending required to support our technical professional services revenues, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, we typically see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses was due primarily to the decline in our project services revenues combined with managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2009 decreased by $22.5 million, or 3.5%, to $620.6 million, compared to $643.1 million for fiscal 2008. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 5.7% in fiscal 2008. This decrease in operating profit is due primarily to the overall decline in business volume, and in particular, the decrease in project services revenues. Interest income for fiscal 2009 decreased by $2.3 million, or 14.9%, to $13.1 million, compared to $15.4 million for fiscal 2008. Even though the Company maintained higher average cash balances during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Interest expense for fiscal 2009 decreased by $1.5 million, or 33.9%, to $2.9 million, compared to $4.4 million for fiscal 2008. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to lower average borrowings outstanding during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Miscellaneous expense, net for fiscal 2009 totaled $6.7 million as compared to miscellaneous income, net of $3.9 million for fiscal 2008. Included in miscellaneous income, net in fiscal 2008 was a $10.6 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in a business that provides specialized operations and maintenance services for highways and associated facilities. By excluding the gain from fiscal 2008, miscellaneous expense, net for fiscal 2008 would have been $6.7 million. 43 Table of Contents We recorded income tax expense of $224.9 million during fiscal 2009, compared to $236.7 million during fiscal 2008. Our overall effective tax rate in fiscal 2009 was 36% the same as fiscal 2008. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of October 1, 2010 (in thousands): Payments Due by Fiscal Period Total 1 Yearor Less 2 3Years 4 5Years More than5 Years Debt obligations $ 79,908 $ 79,399 $ 509 $ $ Operating leases (a) 769,953 172,573 201,578 166,042 229,760 Obligations under defined benefit pension plans (b) 396,939 37,978 80,574 87,149 191,238 Obligations under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (c) 83,371 6,629 14,064 15,212 47,466 Purchase obligations (d) 824,333 824,333 Total $ 2,154,504 $ 1,120,912 $ 296,725 $ 268,403 $ 468,464 (a) Assumes the Company will make end of lease term residual value guarantee payments of $35.3 million in 2011 and $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of two office buildings in Houston, Texas. (b) Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2011, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of October 1, 2010. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements. (c) Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2010, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of October 1, 2010. (d) Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of October 1, 2010. Backlog Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Technical professional services $ 7,588.9 $ 8,209.3 $ 8,085.2 Field services 5,613.1 7,010.1 8,611.4 Total $ 13,202.0 $ 15,219.4 $ 16,696.6 Because the entire value of a contract is added to backlog as soon as the contract is awarded to us (rather than adding the contracts to backlog gradually over time), and because many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years), we evaluate our backlog on a year over year basis, rather than on a sequential, quarter over quarter basis. Our backlog at October 1, 2010 decreased by $2.0 billion, or 13.3%, to $13.2 billion from $15.2 billion at October 2, 2009. 44 Table of Contents In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, adjustments were made to a variety of extended term, task order, indefinite quantity, and other similar contracts where it became clear that the full capacity of the previously recorded backlog amount would not be realized. Such negative adjustments totaled approximately $390.0 million and affected technical professional services. During fiscal 2009, approximately $1.9 billion was removed from backlog as a result of project cancellations. Approximately $2.4 billion was removed from backlog during fiscal 2008 relating to cancelled projects. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2010. While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog), $4.2 billion (or 27.7% of total backlog), and $3.4 billion (or 20.4% of total backlog) at October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009, and September 26, 2008, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts). Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $6.9 billion, or 52.3%, of total backlog at October 1, 2010 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year. Effects of Inflation The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in detail in Item 1A Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference. Liquidity and Capital Resources The three more significant and or nonrecurring uses of cash during fiscal 2010 was approximately $259.5 million for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired (approximately $236.2 million more than what was spent for acquisitions during fiscal 2009); approximately $108.5 million for purchases of investments (approximately $74.5 million more than what was spent for investments during fiscal 2009); and approximately $64.5 million representing the net cash outflow relating to the SIVOM Judgment. In spite of the $432.5 million of cash used for these transactions and events, our cash and cash equivalents decreased by only $94.8 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $429.2 million during fiscal 2009, and a decrease of $8.9 million during fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2010, we generated net cash inflows of $197.0 million from operating activities and $95.6 million from financing activities. These inflows were offset in part by outflows from investing activities and the effect of exchange rate changes of $374.4 million and $13.0 million, respectively. Our operations provided net cash of $197.0 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash inflows of $533.5 million and $313.4 million during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $336.5 million decrease in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to the following factors: a $188.3 million decrease relating to changes in our working capital accounts (discussed below); and, a $153.9 million decrease in net earnings. With respect to the $188.3 million decrease in cash flows relating to changes in our working capital accounts, there was no unusual activity occurring in these accounts during fiscal 2010. Because such a high 45 Table of Contents percentage of our revenues are earned on cost plus type contracts (86% and 85% of total revenues for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively), and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Companys working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Receivable consist of amounts owed to us by our clients a substantial portion of which is for project related costs. Billings in excess of costs consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred. This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique for our industry, and facilitates reviews of cash flow information at the total working capital level. The $188.3 million decrease in cash flows relating to changes in our working capital accounts was due primarily to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts, and reflects the general decline of the overall business in fiscal 2010 as compared to the prior year. We used $374.4 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash outflows of $94.9 million and $409.9 million during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $279.4 million increase in cash used for investing activities as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to acquisitions of businesses and changes in investments. During fiscal 2010 we acquired Jordan, Jones & Goulding, Inc. and TYBRIN Corporation, and we completed our investment in AWE Management Limited. Our financing activities resulted in net cash inflows of $95.6 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash outflows of $39.0 million during fiscal 2009 and net cash inflows of $98.8 million during fiscal 2008. The $134.6 million net increase in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to an $87.9 million change in the Companys borrowing activities along with a $54.5 million change in other deferred liabilities (relating primarily to the Companys defined benefit pension plans). We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations and service our debt for the next twelve months. We had $938.8 million in cash and cash equivalents at October 1, 2010, compared to $1.0 billion at October 2, 2009. Our consolidated working capital position at October 1, 2010 was $1.53 billion, compared to $1.52 billion at October 2, 2009, which management believes is adequate. We have a long term, unsecured, revolving credit facility providing up to $290.0 million of debt capacity, under which approximately $32.9 million was utilized at October 1, 2010 in the form of letters of credit only. We also have a short term credit facility in place at October 1, 2010 providing $79.4 million of debt capacity, which was entirely utilized as of that date. We believe that the capacity, terms and conditions of our committed credit facilities, combined with other uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements. Depending on the size of any business acquisition we complete in the future and the timing of when any such transaction may close, our current cash balances and existing credit facilities may not be sufficient to provide the amount of liquidity we may need. We believe, however, that we will be able to access the capital markets and fund future acquisitions if and when the need arises. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 46 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009 13 Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends certain guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605 25 (Revenue Recognition Multiple Element Arrangements). ASU 2009 13 requires entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. The amendments eliminate the residual method of revenue allocation and require revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method. ASU 2009 13 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2009 13, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167 Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (as codified in ASC 810 10. ASC 810 10 requires the Company to perform an analysis to determine whether its variable interests give the Company a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity. Such analysis requires the Company to assess whether it has the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity and if it has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. ASC 810 10 eliminates the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and significantly enhances disclosures. SFAS 167 is effective for the Company October 1, 2010. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this statement, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R Business Combinations (as codified in ASC 805). ASC 805 significantly changes the accounting and reporting for business combinations. Among other changes, ASC 805 requires acquisition related costs to be recognized separately from the acquisition; in a business combination achieved in stages, an acquiree to recognize the identifiable assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the full amounts of their fair values as of the acquisition date; an acquirer to recognize assets or liabilities from contingencies as of the acquisition date. The requirement to measure the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at fair value will result in recognizing the goodwill attributable to the noncontrolling interest in addition to that attributable to the acquirer. ASC 805 was effective for the Company October 3, 2009. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (as codified in ASC 810 10 65). ASC 810 10 65 significantly changes the accounting and reporting of noncontrolling (formerly known as minority) interests in consolidated financial statements. Among other changes, ASC 810 10 65 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements; establishes that net income attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest will be reported in the consolidated statement of earnings; and eliminates the requirement of purchase accounting for a parents acquisition of a noncontrolling ownership interest. ASC 810 10 65 was effective for the Company October 3, 2009. Depending on the size and nature of an acquisition, the adoption of ASC 810 10 and ASC 805 could have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our only committed source for long term credit is a $290.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility. There were no direct borrowings outstanding under this facility at October 1, 2010. This agreement expires in 47 Table of Contents May 2012, and provides for both fixed rate and variable rate borrowings. Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk are to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we continuously monitor changes in interest rates, and use cash provided from operations to re pay our borrowings as quickly as possible. Furthermore, the Company can use a combination of both fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage our exposure to interest rate risk. Foreign Currency Risk In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC 815 10 in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations. 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below, for a description of this matter and its effects on the Companys fiscal 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as for a reconciliation to the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP). (b) Beginning in fiscal 2010, the industry group formerly called Energy & Refining Downstream has been renamed Refining Downstream, and revenues relating to projects for customers in the power industry have been reclassified to the category Industrial and Other. Industrial and Other now includes revenues from projects for our clients operating in the power; technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; food and consumer products; and basic resources industries, among others. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation. (c) Beginning in fiscal 2010, revenues relating to buildings projects performed for the U.S. federal government have been reclassified from the National Government Programs industry group to the Buildings market. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation. Refining Downstream Our typical refining projects range in size from several thousand dollars to multi billion dollar facilities and include new design and construction, revamps or expansions of existing plants, turnarounds, upgrades of individual process units within refineries, and long term maintenance services. In addition to our core services for our global refining clients, we provide process assessments, facility appraisals, feasibility studies, technology 10 Table of Contents evaluations, project finance structuring and support, and multi client subscription services. We are also a market leader in clean fuels, environmental, and compliance projects all meeting government regulatory requirements. Our modular construction capabilities, asset management/maintenance services, and formal client alliances help differentiate us in this industry. As a result of the close proximity of processing units in refineries when renovating or upgrading, using modular construction can decrease congestion at the construction site and can also provide enhanced safety, cost, and project execution benefits in remote locations. In this market, we also include power generation projects within our clients refining and processing facilities. Typical projects include simple and combined cycle power projects, industrial gas turbines, and emergency power generation stations. Services where we can offer specific assistance include procurement and commissioning of equipment. Oil & Gas Upstream In the exploration and production market, many of our upstream projects are in North America, Europe, India, and the Middle East and include offshore and deepwater facilities; heavy oil processing (e.g., oil sands thermal extraction projects); oil recovery through steam injection; and gas treating, gas gathering, and gas storage projects including extraction of commercially valuable elements of the gas stream, utilizing new technologies such as Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage (SAGD). Typical projects involve the design and construction of projects that recover oil and gas and include oil thermal recovery facilities either by in situ means (steam injection or steam assisted gravity drainage) or oil sands mining, upgraders, pipelines, gas plants, and CO2 Flood. These are typically large projects that may involve many of our offices and normally include our Mumbai, India office as a value added center to reduce client costs. We are also providing substantial maintenance and modification services for aging oil and gas facilities around the world, as well as offering unique subsea engineering capabilities that will expand the Company into the subsea completion and production market. In connection with the refining market, we also provide process assessments, facility appraisals, feasibility studies, technology evaluations, project finance structuring, and support services. National Government Programs We categorize our National Government Programs as generally relating to aerospace and defense programs or environmental programs. Aerospace and Defense Programs We provide an in depth range of science, engineering, and technical support services to the aerospace and defense industry. Long term clients include the Ministry of Defence in the U.K., NASA, the DoD, the U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), and the Australian Department of Defence. Specific to NASA is our ability to design, build, operate, and maintain highly complex facilities relating to space systems including test and evaluation facilities, launch facilities, and support infrastructure. We play an integral role for NASA in delivering support to virtually every major space program including the International Space Station; space shuttle recertification; space observatories; aerospace transportation systems; space propulsion systems; advanced materials research; and advanced research and development activities such as protein crystal growth experiments for the development of new drugs and vaccines. Our experience in the defense sector includes military systems acquisition management and strategic planning; operations and maintenance of test facilities and ranges; test and evaluation in computer, laboratory, 11 Table of Contents facility, and range environments; test facility computer systems instrumentation and diagnostics; and test facility design and build. We also provide systems engineering and integration of complex weapons and space systems, as well as hardware and software design of complex flight and ground systems. We have been providing advanced technology engineering services to the DoD for more than 50 years, and currently support major defense programs in the United Sates and internationally. We operate and maintain several DoD test centers and provide services such as aerodynamic testing of next generation fighter aircraft; propulsion testing for space programs; testing of the U.S. Armys next generation ground mobile weapon systems; and acquisition support for weapons systems such as air to air missile systems and precision guided smart weapons for high value targets. We assist in the acquisition and development of systems and equipment for Special Operations Forces as well as the development of biological, chemical, and nuclear detection and protection systems. We support and maintain enterprise information systems for government and commercial clients worldwide, ranging from the operation of complex computational networks to the development and validation of specific software applications. We support the DoD in a number of information technology programs including network design, integration, and support; command and control technology; development and maintenance of databases and customized applications; and security solutions. Environmental Programs We provide environmental investigation, permitting, restoration, remediation, engineering, and site operations services to a number of European, North American, and Middle Eastern government agencies. Our projects include hazardous and nuclear waste management and site cleanup and closure; the preparation of feasibility studies and environmental investigations; environmental design; and remediation services on several national programs, as well as compliance with various national environmental policies. The U.K.s mandatory climate change and energy saving program, the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, as well as the European Unions Energy Policy for 2011 2020, provide us tremendous opportunity to offer our carbon management, waste management, recycling, landfill, and methane emissions reduction services to our clients. In the U.S., much of our work relates to major environmental statutes, with particular emphasis on the U.S.s Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (CERCLA), as well as green infrastructure over the next 10 years. Our clients include the DoD, the U.K.s Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the United States Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE). Some of these projects require execution of capital projects involving sustainment, repair, and modernization of military facilities and infrastructure. Additionally, we support our clients in such areas as pollution prevention assessments; underground storage tank removal; contaminated soil and water remediation, monitoring and cleanup systems; long term water quality management plans; and air quality planning and permitting. Much of this type of work is in support of large infrastructure projects that are underway both in Europe and in North America. As a differentiating aspect of our support to clients, we provide asset management services in the form of long term infrastructure operations and maintenance. This is an integral part of our services for the U.S. Department of Energy (DoE). Asset management also includes building closures that involve deactivation, decommissioning, and demolition of government facilities. Chemicals and Polymers The types of projects we execute for our clients operating in the chemical and polymers industries include feedstock synthesis, chemical synthesis, and polymerization. This includes high pressure processes to produce 12 Table of Contents industrial chemicals and low pressure, multi product processes to produce specialty and fine chemicals. We have extensive knowledge of and experience with advanced polymerization reactors and state of the art, post reactor processing techniques to help bring new products and new facilities to market quickly and economically. One of our areas of focus, due to high feedstock costs, is gasification to produce the feeds for chemicals and fertilizers. Our clients in this sector focus on safety, reliability, and maintainability to keep operating costs down. To support this initiative, we apply best practices on capital and maintenance work by leveraging resources within our alliances and partnerships that in some cases involve more than 25 chemical facilities for one owner. As these multi site relationships increase in magnitude, the range of services we can provide our clients broadens and varies from providing on site planning and basic engineering services to completing an entire capital improvement program. Our goal is to guide and assist our chemical clients from planning and concept to a constructed and operating chemical facility. Specialty services we provide to our clients in these industries include project finance structuring, market analysis, facility appraisal, and procurement with global inspection capabilities as a value add to our core services. Another important aspect of serving our clients in the chemicals business is in the area of field services. We have contracts with major chemical producers worldwide to provide construction, on site maintenance, and turnaround activities. Many of these contracts are evergreen in nature, with relationships extending over many years due to our focus on safety, value, and client satisfaction and lead us to numerous formal alliances. Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology As companies in this industry continue to experience pressure to decrease product time to market, reduce costs, and increase return on investment, the types of services we provide have grown over the years to include modular construction, as well as consulting and strategic planning to help our clients complete capital projects faster and more efficiently. We are leaders in applying LEAN execution techniques to capital project execution. As an example, we increased our efforts to integrate commissioning and validation services, helping reduce the amount of time required to introduce a new drug into the marketplace. We provide our pharmaceuticals and biotechnology clients single point consulting, engineering, procurement, construction management, and validation (EPCMV) project delivery, enabling us to execute the industrys largest capital programs on a single responsibility basis. Typical projects in this sector include laboratories, research and development facilities, pilot plants, bulk active pharmaceutical ingredient production facilities, full scale biotechnology production facilities, and secondary manufacturing facilities. Regulatory compliance, state of the art technology, and increased efficiencies are critical issues to our clients in these industries. Such technology and knowledge encompasses containment, barrier technology, locally controlled environments, building systems automation, and off the site design and fabrication of facility modules. We also bring such expertise as vaccine production and purification and aseptic processing. In addition to providing our core services, we rely on our programming, target concept design, 3 D visualization capabilities, project controls, and automation capabilities to provide value to our clients. This enables us to better transition projects from the planning phase through engineering, construction, start up, commissioning, and validation phases as economically and efficiently as possible. As new product discovery and development drives capital spending, our multi domestic structure, as well as formal alliances and preferred provider agreements, enhances our ability to act as a program partner, help clients effectively manage their strategic investments, and deliver their capital programs worldwide. 13 Table of Contents Infrastructure Our strength in this industry segment includes transportation, transit, aviation, water and wastewater, and civil construction projects throughout North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. Representative clients include national government departments and agencies in the U.S. and the U.K.; state departments of transportation within the U.S.; other regional and local agencies; and private industry freight transport firms. In addition, we are growing our markets in the Middle East and Asia. Transportation infrastructure development and rehabilitation is a core competency of our infrastructure business. Our systems include alternative delivery methods such as design build, public private funding ventures, and enterprise management options. Typical projects include highways, bridges, transit, tunnels, airports, railroads, intermodal facilities, and maritime or port projects where our interdisciplinary teams work independently or as an extension of the clients staff. We also help shape this market by providing program advisory services relating to public private partnerships and tollways that result in improving mobility within a regions existing infrastructure with limited traditional transportation funding. Providing alternative financing methods has also proven successful in Europe where there is privatization of public infrastructure systems. We have a long history of serving international, regional, and municipal airports, as well as air carriers and military installations. While the aviation industry has faced pressure over recent years, our knowledge of air and landside design and technology, our ability to develop sustainable (green) programs, and our depth and breadth of expertise help our aviation clients streamline operations and reduce operating and maintenance costs. In water infrastructure, we help public and private sector clients develop or rehabilitate critical water resource systems. By integrating water, wastewater, air quality, and waste remediation experience, we provide these clients with the comprehensive expertise needed to deliver complex programs. Clients include regional wastewater treatment agencies, flood control agencies, manufacturers and utilities, local water suppliers, and military installations. We continue to develop water/wastewater conveyance systems and water flood defense projects. We have developed micro tunneling (trenchless technology) as a primary service and successfully applied this specialized process to such projects as water and utility distribution systems and pipelines. Buildings Our diversified client base encompassing both public and private sectors throughout the United States, many parts of Europe, and the Middle East relates primarily to institutional, commercial, government, and corporate buildings, including projects at many of the worlds leading medical and research centers and universities. We focus our efforts and resources in areas where capital spending initiatives drive demand and where changes and advances in technology require innovative, value adding solutions. We have specific capabilities in energy and power, master planning, and commissioning for office headquarters, aviation facilities, mission critical centers, municipal and civic buildings, courts and correctional facilities, retail, mixed use and commercial centers, healthcare and education campuses, and recreation complexes, including some of the most high profile entertainment facilities. We also specialize in the management of large national roll out store and distribution center programs for top, publicly traded retailers. Of particular significance is our growing success in applying our diversified technical skill base to both public and private sector clients requiring complete program management. Such contracts typically involve providing technical, professional, and construction services over multiple years to clients with whom we have long standing relationships and tenure of successful service, including alliance or framework programs. We also provide integrated facility management services for which we (often through joint ventures with third parties) assume full responsibility for the ongoing operation and maintenance of entire commercial or industrial complexes on behalf of the client. 14 Table of Contents Advanced technology clients require highly specialized buildings in the fields of medical research, nano science, biotechnology, and laser sciences. We offer total integrated design and construction management solutions to these projects, many of which are world leaders in their function. Our national building projects include large, multi year government building programs in the U.S. and Europe including renovating and modernizing terminal radar control centers, air traffic control towers, and other aviation facilities; planning and design services for offices, data centers and mission control facilities; and support for complex government sponsored laboratory and research facilities. U.S. government agencies we serve include the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA); the General Services Administration (GSA); the Internal Revenue Service (IRS); the U.S. Departments of State, Treasury, Agriculture, Homeland Security, and Defense; and the Army National Guard, among others. In the U.K., we are leading the Custodial Services project management delivery program to upgrade the U.K. prison stock and also some security led programs such as upgrading works to the Palace of Westminster and some Regional Police Authorities. We are providing our full range of services to the DoD on military family housing; quality of life projects; training, maintenance, and readiness facilities; and command and control centers, as well as military facilities supporting the DoDs global re basing program, the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) program. Power, Pulp & Paper, High Tech, Food and Consumer Products We provide a broad range of services to our power; pulp and paper; high technology manufacturing; food, beverage, and consumer products clients. Power In this market, we include power generation and cogeneration projects for the energy supply industry. Typical projects include simple and combined cycle power projects, cogeneration power plants, aeroderivative and industrial gas turbines, and emergency power generation stations. Services where we can offer specific assistance include procurement and commissioning of equipment. Pulp and Paper The pulp and paper industry has been consolidating for many years and several of the traditional pulp and paper clients have emerged as major consumer product companies. These clients have created new opportunities for us in non traditional areas, such as wall board plants and facilities that manufacture diapers and feminine care products. Typical projects range from small mill projects to complex, multi million dollar paper machine rebuilds, mill expansions, and the construction of new facilities. Pulp and paper projects encompass many areas of a mill, including pulping and bleaching, papermaking, chemical recovery, material handling, effluent treatment, and power and steam generation. In the area of papermaking, our expertise includes tissue and towel, coated and uncoated fine papers, newsprint, and linerboard. Our expertise also includes the converting and packaging of paper products for distribution and consumer use. We have been instrumental in designing and installing state of the art facilities for recycled fiber, de inking, and pulp bleaching. Our pulp and paper capability extends through our offices in the U.S., U.K., France, Spain, Italy, and Mexico to clients worldwide. A significant portion of our work consists of assisting our clients in their compliance with environmental regulations and standards that affect the pulp and paper industry. We monitor all of the key environmental regulations affecting our clients and offer services including compliance studies, permitting support, and design of pollution control systems. We also assist with complete permitting services, including associated air modeling, as well as compliance services regarding air pollutant standards and hazardous air pollutant emission limits from industrial boilers for our pulp and paper clients. 15 Table of Contents Technology and Manufacturing We provide our core services for a variety of high tech manufacturing and test facilities, particularly for clients in the automotive and industrial industries. We are a leader in providing support to automotive manufacturers and component suppliers for the supply of testing services and the management of test assets. Typical automotive projects range from conceptual design and feasibility studies to complete design build programs of: aero acoustic wind tunnels, engine test facilities, acoustic enclosures, transmission test stands; powertrain, environmental, emissions, altitude, and electromagnetic compatibility test facilities; in line and end of line component test stands; and computer based measurement and control systems. We also provide our services for advanced technology and research facilities, including facilities supporting research in fusion and fission energy, nanoscale materials, and high powered lasers and x rays to support important research activities in the United States, Europe, and the U.K. We also perform projects for clients operating in the semiconductor industry. Projects in the semiconductor industry are typically more complex than many other commercial facilities, requiring a greater emphasis on cleanroom and similar high end technologies. Our projects range from on site plant engineering and tool hook ups to multi million dollar state of the art wafer fabrication and crystal growing facilities used to produce solar energy cells, microprocessors for computers, and other consumer electronic devices. Food, Beverage and Consumer Products Influenced by discerning, health conscious consumers with increased awareness of nutrition and wellness, and as a result of growth in the industry, our clients are responding to consumer demands in Asia, Europe, and North America, as well as in certain developing countries. Producers are responding with innovation and renovation of core products, which is driving investments for new plants and retrofitting of existing ones. As a leading provider to the entire food, beverage, and consumer products supply chain, our global presence and capabilities allow us to help our clients with targeted expansion and new investments. Our food processing services include hygienic design, clean in place (CIP) systems, heat transfer systems, material handling of liquids and solids, refrigeration, and complying government requirements. The need to efficiently deliver the right consumer products at the right time remains critical to our clients. From facility design to raw materials processing to converting, packaging, and distribution, our vast depth of expertise helps our clients do just that. Our knowledge of food and beverage processing results in plants that are productive, efficient, and economical. Our clients are global and diverse, including chicken and meat processors, beer and soda companies, chocolate and candy makers, healthcare product companies, and major food manufacturers and distributors. Backlog Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to operations and maintenance (O&M) contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating 16 Table of Contents to the contracts. Our backlog includes expected revenues for contracts that are based on estimates. For information regarding our backlog, refer to Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below. Significant Customers The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government for each of the last five fiscal years: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 25.4% 20.3 % 16.8 % 16.6 % 16.4 % It is uncommon for a commercial customer to contribute 10% or more of the Companys total revenues. On occasion, however, we will perform a number of field services projects for a single customer in the same fiscal year which, primarily because of the amount of pass through costs (discussed below) that is included in revenue, will cause total revenue from that customer to exceed 10% of total consolidated revenues. For the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009 revenues earned from Motiva Enterprises LLC accounted for 12.2% of total consolidated revenues and for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 revenues earned from Valero Energy Corporation accounted for 10.2% of total consolidated revenues. Financial Information About Geographic Areas Selected financial information regarding the geographic areas in which we operate is included in Note 14 Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference. Contracts While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts we undertake, our contracts generally fall into three broad categories: cost reimbursable, fixed price, and guaranteed maximum price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts for each of the last five fiscal years: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Cost reimbursable 86 % 85 % 86 % 88 % 90 % Fixed price 13 14 12 10 9 Guaranteed maximum price 1 1 2 2 1 In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts (including those with the U.S. federal government) are subject to termination at the discretion of the client. In such situations, our contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination. When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement, and construction of a project or the maintenance of a clients plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment, and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. The following table sets forth the approximate amount of such pass through costs included in revenues for each of the last five fiscal years (in millions of dollars): 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 $2,723.3 $ 4,017.0 $ 3,517.4 $ 2,746.7 $ 2,680.7 17 Table of Contents Cost Reimbursable Contracts Cost reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount as specified in the contract; it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract. In general, we prefer cost reimbursable contracts because we believe the primary reason for awarding a contract to us should be our technical expertise and professional qualifications rather than price. Fixed Price Contracts Fixed price contracts include both lump sum bid contracts and negotiated fixed price contracts. Under lump sum bid contracts, we typically bid against other contractors based on specifications the client furnishes. This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid contracts to lead to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship based business model. Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract. In contrast, under a negotiated fixed price contract, we are selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client. Negotiated fixed price contracts frequently exist in single responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of the project. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts. Over the past five years, most of our fixed price work has been either negotiated fixed price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for project services, rather than turn key construction. Guaranteed Maximum Price Contracts Guaranteed maximum price contracts are performed in the same manner as cost reimbursable contracts; however, the total actual cost plus the fee cannot exceed the guaranteed price negotiated with the client. If the total actual cost of the contract exceeds the guaranteed maximum price, then we will bear at least some, if not all, of the excess. In those cases where the total actual cost and fee are less than the guaranteed price, we will often share the savings on a predetermined basis with the client. These contracts are not our preferred form of contract because we believe they often contribute to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship based business model. Competition For information regarding the competitive conditions in our business, please refer to Item 1A Risk Factors, below. Employees At October 1, 2010, we had approximately 38,500 full time, staff employees (including contract staff). Additionally, as of October 1, 2010, there were approximately 13,700 persons employed in the field on a project basis. The number of field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular time. Available Information You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C., 20549. In order to obtain information about the operation of the Public 18 Table of Contents Reference Room, a person may call the SEC at 1 800 732 0330. The SEC also maintains a site on the Internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SECs website is http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and download the various reports we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge from our website, http://www.jacobs.com. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Construction and maintenance sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we can be exposed to significant financial losses as well as civil and criminal liabilities. Construction and maintenance sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly regulated materials. On many sites we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures. If we fail to implement such procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, our employees and others may become injured. Unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, and raise our operating costs. Any of the foregoing could result in financial losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our projects can involve the handling of hazardous and other highly regulated materials, which, if improperly handled or disposed of, could subject us to civil and criminal liabilities. We are also subject to regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Although we maintain functional groups whose primary purpose is to ensure we implement effective health, safety, and environmental (HSE) work procedures throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites, the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to liability. Our safety record is critical to our reputation. Many of our clients require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid for contracts and many contracts provide for automatic termination or forfeiture of some or all of our contract fees or profit in the event we fail to meet certain measures. As a result, our failure to maintain adequate safety standards could result in reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Negative conditions in the credit and financial markets could impair our ability to operate our business, implement our acquisition strategy, and access our cash and short term investments. Although we finance much of our operations using cash provided by operations, at times we depend on the availability of credit to grow our business and to help fund business acquisitions. In addition, some of our clients depend of the availability of credit to help finance their capital projects. Due to the continuing instability of the credit markets in the U.S. and abroad, the availability of credit has continued to be relatively difficult or expensive to obtain in spite of government efforts to increase liquidity and hold or reduce interest rates. This situation could negatively impact our clients ability to fund their projects and, therefore, utilize our services, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the risk that the counterparties to our credit agreements may go bankrupt if they suffer catastrophic demand on their liquidity that will prevent them from fulfilling their contractual obligations to us. We also routinely enter into contracts with counterparties including vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors that may be negatively impacted by events in the credit markets. If those counterparties are unable to perform their obligations to us or our clients, we may be required to provide additional services or make alternate arrangements with other parties to ensure adequate performance and delivery of services to our clients. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we typically bill our clients for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our clients delaying or failing to pay our invoices. In weak economic environments, we may experience increased delays 19 Table of Contents and failures due to, among other reasons, a diminution in our clients access to the credit markets. If one or more clients delays in paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, our cash balances and short term investments are maintained in accounts held by major banks and financial institutions located primarily in North America, Europe, and Asia. Some of our accounts hold deposits in amounts that exceed available insurance. Although none of the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and investments have gone into bankruptcy or forced receivership, or have been seized by their governments, there is a risk that this may occur in the future. If this were to occur, we would be at risk of not being able to access our cash which may result in a temporary liquidity crisis that could impede our ability to fund operations. Our vulnerability to the cyclical nature of the markets in which our clients operate is exacerbated during economic downturns. We provide technical, professional, construction, and O&M services to clients operating in a number of markets including oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; programs for various national governments, including the U.S. federal government; chemicals and polymers; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; infrastructure; buildings; and other, general industrial and consumer businesses and markets (such as technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; food and consumer products; and mining and minerals). These markets and the resulting demand for our services have been, and we expect will continue to be, cyclical and subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and changes in client spending, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. Current global economic conditions have negatively impacted our clients ability and willingness to fund their projects. They have also caused our clients to reduce their capital expenditures, alter the mix of services purchased, seek more favorable price and other contract terms, and otherwise slow their spending on our services. For example, the precipitous increase in crude oil prices followed by their collapse in calendar year 2008 caused several of our clients operating in the upstream oil and gas market to re examine a number of their large capital projects, which resulted in delays and cancellations of contracts previously awarded to us. In the public sector, declines in state tax revenues as well as other economic declines may result in lower state and local government spending. These conditions have reduced the demand for our services, which has had a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. Current economic conditions also make it extremely difficult for our clients, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause businesses to continue to slow spending on our services. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery worldwide or in our clients markets. In addition, our business has traditionally lagged recoveries in the general economy and, therefore, may not recover as quickly as the economy at large. A continuation or worsening of current weak economic conditions or a reduction in government spending could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regardless of economic or market conditions, investment decisions by our customers may vary by location or as a result of other factors like the availability of labor or relative construction cost. Because we are dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, we are therefore vulnerable to changes in our clients markets and investment decisions. As a result, our past results have varied considerably and may continue to vary depending upon the demand for future projects in the markets and the locations in which we operate. Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our customers investment decisions and therefore subject us to risks of cancellation, delays in existing work, or changes in the timing and funding of new awards. Commodity prices can affect our customers in a number of ways. For example, for those customers that produce commodity products such as oil, gas, copper, or fertilizers, fluctuations in price can have a direct effect 20 Table of Contents on their profitability and cash flow and, therefore, their willingness to continue to invest or make new capital investments. To the extent our customers defer new investments or cancel or delay existing projects, the demand for our services decreases, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Commodity prices can also strongly affect the costs of projects. Rising commodity prices can negatively impact the potential returns on investments that are planned, as well as those in progress, and result in customers deferring new investments or canceling or delaying existing projects. Cancellations and delays have affected our past results and may continue to do so in significant and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel, including engineers, architects, designers, craft personnel, and corporate management professionals who have the required experience and expertise. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. In certain geographic areas, for example, we may not be able to satisfy the demand for our services because of our inability to successfully hire and retain qualified personnel. In addition, as some of our key personnel approach retirement age, we need to have appropriate succession plans in place and to successfully implement such plans. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel or effectively implement appropriate succession plans, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The cost of providing our services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. For example, the uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contracts. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur cost resulting from excess staff, reductions in staff, or redundancy of facilities that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions, and results of operations. The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors, and vendors presenting claims to us for, among other things, recovery of costs related to certain projects. Similarly, we occasionally present change orders and other claims to our clients, subcontractors, and vendors. If we fail to document properly the nature of our claims and change orders or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating reasonable settlements with our clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we could incur cost overruns, reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for a project. Additionally, irrespective of how well we document the nature of our claims and change orders, the cost to prosecute and defend claims and change orders can be significant. We are a party to litigation in the normal course of business. Most litigation with which we are involved as a defendant relates to workers compensation, personal injury, environmental, employment/labor, professional liability, and similar matters. We can be exposed to claims and litigation if, for example, there is a failure at any of the projects for which we have provided engineering or other services. Such claims could relate to, among other things, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, property damage, pollution, and environmental damage and be brought by our clients or third parties, such as those who use or reside near our clients projects. We can also be exposed to claims if we agreed that a project will achieve certain performance standards and those standards are not met. In many of our contracts with clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we agree to retain or assume potential liabilities for damages, penalties, losses, and other exposures relating to projects that could result in claims that greatly exceed the anticipated profits relating to those contracts. 21 Table of Contents We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. Our insurance programs have varying coverage limits and maximums. In addition, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under these programs. As a result, we may be subject to future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured. Our insurers are also subject to business risk and, as a result, one or more of them may be unable to fulfill their insurance obligations due to insolvency or otherwise. Pending or future claims against us could result in professional liability, product liability, criminal liability, warranty obligations, and other liabilities which, to the extent we are not insured against a loss or our insurer fails to provide coverage, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance. Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions, and regulations including oversight audits by various government authorities and profit and cost controls. Government contracts are also exposed to uncertainties associated with funding. Contracts with the U.S. federal government, for example, are subject to the uncertainties of Congressional funding. Governments are typically under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for government programs may even be eliminated. As a result, our government clients may terminate our contracts for convenience or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice. Since government contracts represent a significant percentage of our revenues (those with the U.S. federal government represented approximately 25.4% of our total revenue in fiscal 2010), the loss of such contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, since government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio economic requirements, we must comply with such requirements. For example, for contracts with the U.S. federal government, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act, and DoD security regulations. We must also comply with various other government regulations and requirements as well as various statutes related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping, and accounting. These regulations and requirements affect how we transact business with our clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Government contracts also contain terms that expose us to heightened levels of risk and potential liability than non government contracts. This includes, for example, unlimited indemnification obligations. We also are subject to government audits, investigations, and proceedings, and so called qui tam actions brought by individuals or the government under the U.S. Federal False Claims Act or under similar state and local laws. For example, government agencies routinely review and audit government contractors to determine whether allowable costs are in accordance with applicable regulations. These audits can result in adjustments to the amount of contract costs we believe are reimbursable by the agencies and the amount of our overhead costs allocated to the agencies. If we violate a rule or regulation, fail to comply with a contractual or other requirement or do not satisfy an audit, a variety of penalties can be imposed including monetary damages and criminal and civil penalties. In addition, any or all of our government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed. The occurrence of any of these actions could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We bear the risk of cost overruns in fixed price and guaranteed maximum price contracts. We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if costs increase above our estimates. For fiscal 2010, approximately 14% of our revenues were earned under contracts that were either fixed price or guaranteed maximum price in nature. For these contracts, we bear the risk of paying some, if not all, of any cost overruns. Under fixed price and guaranteed maximum price contracts, contract prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates that are based on a number of assumptions, including those about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, there are errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications, or if circumstances change due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, changes in the costs of raw materials, or our vendors or subcontractors inability to perform, then cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. If the project is significant, or there are one or more issues that impact multiple projects, costs overruns could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by our clients and, therefore, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues or earnings. Additionally, even if fully performed, our backlog may not be a good indicator of our future gross margins. As of the end of fiscal 2010, our backlog totaled approximately $13.2 billion. There is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized as revenues in the amounts reported or, if realized, will result in profits. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. Our backlog includes expected revenues for contracts that are based on estimates. Projects can remain in backlog for extended periods of time because of the nature of the project and the timing of the particular services required by the project. The risk of contracts in backlog being cancelled or suspended generally increases during periods of wide spread economic slowdowns. Additionally, the way we perform on our individual contracts can affect greatly our gross margins and hence, future profitability. In some markets, there is a continuing trend towards cost reimbursable contracts with incentive fee arrangements. Typically, our incentive fees are based on such things as achievement of target completion dates or target costs, overall safety performance, overall client satisfaction, and other performance criteria. If we fail to meet such targets or achieve the expected performance standards, we may receive a lower, or even zero, incentive fee resulting in lower gross margins. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the contracts in backlog, assuming they produce the revenues currently expected, will generate gross margins at the rates we have realized in the past. Our use of joint ventures and partnerships exposes us to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. As is common in the industry, we perform certain contracts as a member of joint ventures, partnerships, and similar arrangements. This situation exposes us to a number of risks, including the risk that our partners may be unable to fulfill their obligations to us or our clients. Our partners may also be unable or unwilling to provide the required levels of financial support to the partnerships. If these circumstances occur, we may be required to pay financial penalties or liquidated damages, provide additional services, or make additional investments to ensure adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. Under agreements with joint and several liabilities, we could be liable for both our obligations and those of our partners. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents In addition, we participate in joint ventures and similar arrangements in which we are not the controlling partner. In these cases, we have limited control over the actions of the joint venture. In addition, these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. To the extent the controlling partner makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control problems arise within the joint venture, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on third parties to complete many of our contracts. Much of the work performed under our contracts is performed by third party subcontractors we hire. We also rely on third party equipment manufacturers or suppliers to provide much of the equipment and materials used for projects. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for subcontractors or equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially in a lump sum or a fixed price contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a subcontractor, supplier, or manufacturer fails to provide services, supplies or equipment as required under a contract for any reason, we may be required to source these services, equipment or supplies to other third parties on a delayed basis or at a higher price than anticipated, which could impact contract profitability. In the current economic environment, third parties may find it difficult to obtain sufficient financing to help fund their operations. The inability to obtain financing could adversely affect a third partys ability to provide materials, equipment or services which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Maintaining adequate bonding capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win fixed price contracts. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance or payment bonds to our customers. These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. Historically, we have had adequate bonding capacity but, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the suretys sole discretion. In addition, because of an overall lack of worldwide bonding capacity, we may find it difficult to find sureties who will provide required levels of bonding or such bonding may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that our bonding capacity will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new contracts that require such bonding could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we fail to comply with federal, state, local or foreign governmental requirements, our business may be adversely affected. We are subject to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that affect our business. For example, we are subject to a variety of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous or waste materials and the remediation of contamination associated with the releases of hazardous substances and human health and safety. These laws and regulations and the risk of attendant litigation can cause significant delays to a project and add significantly to its cost. Violations of regulations could subject us and our management to civil and criminal penalties and other liabilities. Various U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations may impose liability for property damage and costs of investigation and cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances on property currently or 24 Table of Contents previously owned by us or arising out of our waste management or environmental remediation activities. These laws may impose responsibility and liability without regard to knowledge of or causation of the presence of contaminants. The liability under these laws is joint and several. We have potential liabilities associated with our past waste management and other activities and with our current and prior ownership of various properties. The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of unforeseen clean up obligations at these or other sites could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. When we perform our services, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions. We may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers, and third parties as a result of such exposures. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities arising under environmental or safety laws. A claim, if not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Such laws, regulations and policies are reviewed periodically and any changes could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could, for example, relax or repeal laws and regulations relating to the environment, which could result in a decline in the demand for our environmental services and, in turn, could negatively impact our revenue. Our failure to comply with such laws or regulations, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we and many of our clients operate in highly regulated environments, which may require us or our clients to obtain, and to comply with, federal, state, and local government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with, or the loss or modification of, the conditions of permits or approvals may subject us to penalties or other liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and result of operations. Our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders. Although we have policies and procedures to comply with U.S. and foreign international trade laws, the violation of such laws could subject the Company and its employees to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and therefore, our ability to do business. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits. Misconduct, fraud, non compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other foreign corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws, and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, we regularly provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win contracts and result in reduced revenues and profits and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The loss of one or a few customers could have an adverse impact on us. A few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue and or backlog in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. For example, in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009, and fiscal 2008, approximately 25.4%, 20.3%, and 16.8%, respectively, of our revenue was earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government. Although we have long standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce, delay, or cancel their contracts at any time. Our loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We engage in a highly competitive business. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could lose market share and our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We face intense competition to provide technical, professional, and construction services to clients. The extent of such competition varies by industry, geographic market, and project type. For example, with respect to our construction and operations and maintenance services, clients generally award large projects to large contractors, which may give our larger competitors an advantage when bidding for these projects. Conversely, with respect to our engineering, design, architectural, and consulting services, low barriers of entry can result in competition with smaller, newer competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience a loss of market share or reduced profitability or both, which if significant, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our larger competitors for engineering, construction, and maintenance services for process plants include Bechtel, Fluor, Foster Wheeler, KBR, Aker Kvaerner, Technip, WorleyParsons, the Shaw Group, and AMEC. In the area of buildings, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as HDR, HOK, AECOM, and Turner. In the area of infrastructure, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as URS, Parsons Brinckerhoff, HNTB, Tetra Tech, Parsons, and W.S. Atkins. In the area of national government programs, our principal competitors include several of the competitors listed above as well as SAIC, CH2M Hill, Weston, Lockheed Martin, and Computer Sciences Corporation. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in Risk Factors, our international operations are also exposed to additional risks and uncertainties including unfavorable political developments and weak foreign economies. For fiscal 2010, approximately 30% of our revenues was earned from clients outside the U.S. Our business is dependent on the continued success of our international operations, and we expect our international operations to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. At a minimum, our reported financial condition and results of operations are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. In addition, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: Recessions in foreign economies and the impact on our costs of doing business in those countries; 26 Table of Contents Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including logistical and communication challenges; Unexpected changes in foreign government policies and regulatory requirements; Lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; Renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts; The adoption of new, and the expansion of existing, trade or other restrictions; Embargoes; Acts of war, civil unrest, force majeure, and terrorism; The ability to finance efficiently our foreign operations; Social, political, and economic instability; Expropriation of property; Tax increases; Limitations on the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; and U.S. government policies. To the extent our international operations are affected by unexpected or adverse economic, political and other conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our business strategy relies in part on acquisitions to sustain our growth. Acquisitions of other companies present certain risks and uncertainties. Our business strategy involves growth through, among other things, the acquisition of other companies. Acquiring companies presents a number of risks, including: Difficulties relating to combining previously separate entities into a combined, integrated, and efficient business; The effects of diverting managements attention from day to day operations to matters involving the integration of acquired companies; Assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition was negotiated; Failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; Potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations; Potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition; Difficulties relating to assimilating the personnel, services, and systems of an acquired business and to assimilating marketing and other operational capabilities; and Difficulties in applying and integrating our system of internal controls to an acquired business. In addition, there is no assurance that we will continue to locate suitable acquisition targets or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. The current credit markets may make it more difficult and costly to finance acquisitions. Acquisitions may also bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced. 27 Table of Contents In the event we issue stock as consideration for certain acquisitions we may make, we could dilute share ownership. One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities. Accordingly, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S 4 on December 7, 2007. If we issue additional equity securities pursuant to this shelf registration statement or otherwise, such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing shareholders individual ownership percentages in the Company. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock because of a number of factors, including: Fluctuations in the spending patterns of our government and commercial customers; The number and significance of projects executed during a quarter; Unanticipated changes in contract performance, particularly with contracts that have funding limits; The timing of resolving change orders, requests for equitable adjustments, and other contract adjustments; Delays incurred in connection with a project; Weather conditions that delay work at project sites; The timing of expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions or other corporate initiatives; Natural disasters or other crises, such as the hurricanes affecting oil producing regions like the Gulf of Mexico; Staff levels and utilization rates; Changes in prices of services offered by our competitors; and General economic and political conditions. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare our financial statements. In preparing our financial statements, our management is required under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: Recognition of contract revenue, costs, profit or losses in applying the principles of percentage of completion accounting; Estimated amounts for expected project losses, warranty costs, contract close out or other costs; Recognition of recoveries under contract change orders or claims; Collectibility of billed and unbilled accounts receivable and the need and amount of any allowance for doubtful accounts; The amount of reserves necessary for self insured risks; Accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves; Valuation of assets acquired, and liabilities, goodwill, and intangible assets assumed, in acquisitions; Valuation of stock based compensation; and The determination of liabilities under pension and other post retirement benefit programs. 28 Table of Contents Our actual business and financial results could differ from our estimates of such results, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. An impairment charge of goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we are required to test goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for possible impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing it over time. As of October 1, 2010, we had $1.1 billion of goodwill, representing 23.9% of our total assets of $4.7 billion. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill at the end of the third quarter of our fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in a reporting units market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of our business, potential government actions toward our facilities, and other factors. If the fair value of our reporting units is less than their carrying value, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken. For a further discussion of goodwill impairment testing, please see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. Rising inflation, interest rates, and or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services as well as decrease our profit on our existing contracts, in particular with respect to our fixed price contracts. Rising inflation, interest rates, or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services. In addition, we bear all of the risk of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are fixed price and may be at risk to the effects of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are guaranteed maximum price. Because a significant portion of our revenues are earned from cost reimbursable type contracts (approximately 86% during fiscal 2010), the effects of inflation on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few years have been generally minor. However, if we expand our business into markets and geographic areas where fixed price and lump sum work is more prevalent, inflation may have a larger impact on our results of operations in the future. Therefore, increases in inflation, interest rates or construction costs could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover or change of control. We are a Delaware corporation. Certain anti takeover provisions of the Delaware general corporation law impose restrictions on the ability of others to acquire control of us. In addition, certain provisions of our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover. For example: Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three year terms; Only our Board of Directors can fill vacancies on the board; There are various restrictions on the ability of a shareholder to nominate a director for election; and Our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preference shares. These types of provisions, as well as our Shareholder Rights Agreement, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Accordingly, stockholders may be limited in the ability to obtain a premium for their shares. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES Our properties consist primarily of office space within general, commercial office buildings located in major cities primarily in the following countries: United States; Abu Dhabi; Austria; Australia; Belgium; Canada; China; the Czech Republic; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; India; Italy; Mexico; The Netherlands; Poland; Puerto Rico; Republic of Ireland; Saudi Arabia; Singapore; Spain; Sweden; United Arab Emirates; and the U.K. Such space is used for operations (providing technical, professional, and other home office services), sales, and administration. Most of our properties are leased. In addition, we own facilities located in Charleston, South Carolina which serve as our principal manufacturing and fabrication site for our modular construction activities. The total amount of space used by us for all of our operations is approximately 6.5 million square feet. We also lease smaller, project offices located throughout the U.S., the U.K., and in certain other countries. We also rent a portion of our construction equipment on a short term basis. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information required by this Item 3 is included in Note 11 Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information regarding the Companys executive officers is set forth under the caption Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance in Part III, Item 10, of this Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference. 30 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Jacobs common stock is listed on the NYSE and trades under the symbol JEC. We provided to the NYSE, without qualification, the required annual certification of our Chief Executive Officer regarding compliance with the NYSEs corporate governance listing standards. The following table sets forth the low and high sales prices of a share of our common stock during each of the fiscal quarters presented, based on the NYSE consolidated transaction report: Low SalesPrice High SalesPrice Fiscal 2010: First quarter $ 33.70 $ 47.90 Second quarter 35.02 46.30 Third quarter 34.91 50.68 Fourth quarter 34.39 40.00 Fiscal 2009: First quarter $ 26.00 $ 54.19 Second quarter 30.16 54.71 Third quarter 36.75 47.35 Fourth quarter 36.18 49.73 Holders According to the records of our transfer agent, there were 1,467 shareholders of record as of November 15, 2010. Dividends Our policy is to use cash flows from operations to fund future growth, pay down debt, and, subject to market conditions, repurchase common stock under a stock buy back program approved by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, we have not paid a cash dividend since fiscal 1984. Although our Board of Directors periodically reviews and considers the merits of paying cash dividends and buying back shares of our common stock, we currently have no plans to pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock in the foreseeable future. 31 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph shows the changes over the past five year period in the value of $100 invested at the end of fiscal 2005 in (1) the common stock of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., (2) the Standard & Poors 500 Index, and (3) the Dow Jones Heavy Construction Group Index. The values of each investment are based on share price appreciation, with reinvestment of all dividends, provided any were paid. The investments are assumed to have occurred at the beginning of the period presented. Legend Symbol Total Returns Index For: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. 100.00 110.86 224.21 161.14 136.35 114.82 S&P 500 Index 100.00 110.78 128.98 100.66 93.70 103.24 Dow Jones US Heavy Construction 100.00 119.22 240.89 154.24 146.33 138.33 The stock performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 32 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents selected financial data for each of the last five fiscal years. This selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Amounts are presented in thousands, except for per share information: 2010 (1) 2009 2008 2007 2006 Results of Operations: Revenues $ 9,915,517 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 $ 8,473,970 $ 7,421,270 Net earnings attributable to Jacobs 245,974 399,854 420,742 287,130 196,883 Financial Position: Current ratio 2.23 to 1 2.17 to 1 1.74 to 1 1.78 to 1 1.75 to 1 Working capital $ 1,527,589 $ 1,522,548 $ 1,173,237 $ 1,001,644 $ 776,766 Current assets 2,767,042 2,818,449 2,750,234 2,278,078 1,817,961 Total assets 4,683,917 4,428,614 4,278,238 3,389,421 2,853,884 Long term debt 509 737 55,675 40,450 77,673 Total Jacobs stockholders equity 2,859,048 2,625,913 2,245,147 1,843,662 1,423,214 Return on average equity 8.97 % 16.42 % 20.58 % 17.58 % 15.21 % Backlog: Technical professional services $ 7,588,900 $ 8,209,300 $ 8,085,200 $ 6,188,500 $ 5,153,400 Field services 5,613,100 7,010,100 8,611,400 7,397,300 4,624,300 Total $ 13,202,000 $ 15,219,400 $ 16,696,600 $ 13,585,800 $ 9,777,700 Per Share Information: Basic earnings per share $ 1.98 $ 3.26 $ 3.47 $ 2.42 $ 1.69 Diluted earnings per share 1.96 3.21 3.38 2.35 1.64 Stockholders equity 22.71 21.14 18.30 15.34 12.06 Average Number of Shares of Common Stock and Common Stock Equivalents Outstanding (Diluted) 125,790 124,534 124,357 122,226 120,373 Common Shares Outstanding At Year End 125,909 124,230 122,701 120,222 117,992 (1) Includes non recurring, after tax charges totaling $66.1 million, or $0.52 per basic and diluted share, relating to the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment (refer to Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below, for a description of these matters and their effects on the Companys fiscal 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as for a reconciliation to the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP). 33 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long term engineering and construction type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entitys results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting polices are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage of completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in schedule; the cost of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. In some of the markets we serve there is an increasing trend towards cost reimbursable contracts with incentive fee arrangements. In certain instances, we base our incentive fees on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project. We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims. Certain cost reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly. 34 Table of Contents As is common in the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. For certain of these joint ventures (i.e., where we have an undivided interest in the assets and liabilities of the venture), we recognize our proportionate share of joint venture revenues, costs and operating profit in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For other investments in engineering and construction joint ventures, we use the equity method of accounting. Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to compute the grant date fair value of awards of equity instruments. The Black Scholes model requires the use of highly subjective assumptions in order to compute the hypothetical fair value of a stock option. Changes in these assumptions can cause drastically different values being assigned to a stock option. The value assigned to any stock options that may be awarded in the future as well as the related expense associated with any such awards will be dependent on the assumptions used at the time of award. Accounting for Pension Plans The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2010 ranged from 2.2% to 8.0%; this compares to a range of 2.3% to 8.0% for fiscal 2009. We believe the range of rates we applied for fiscal 2010 reflects the long term returns expected on the plans assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.5% to 5.6% in fiscal 2009 to a range of 2.1% to 5.1% in fiscal 2010. These assumptions represent the Companys best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled. Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the our net pension benefit obligation (PBO) at October 1, 2010 was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $182.0 million, and the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2010 would be lower (higher) by approximately $7.0 million. Similarly, if the expected return on plan assets were increased (decreased) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2011 would decrease (increase) by approximately $7.9 million. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used. Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts. 35 Table of Contents In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such insurance reserves in our consolidated results of operations. In addition, as a contractor providing services to the United States federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations. Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as Europe and Non Europe. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2010 Form 10 K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services. Our geography based reporting units reflect the Companys organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions. U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. We determined that a market approach is an appropriate method for valuing our reporting units in light of its common use as a technique for valuing businesses in general. Using this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Companys overall average market earnings multiple. Since the activities of each reporting unit approximates that of the Company overall, we concluded that the use of the Companys market multiple for purposes of applying the market based valuation approach was reasonable. We also believe that the use of this multiple is appropriate considering that both reporting units have qualitative characteristics that are generally consistent with those of the parent company. Those characteristics include size in terms of resources (i.e., personnel); a large, diverse client base; broad geographic reach; and a broad range of design, engineering, and construction and construction management capabilities. The determination of reporting units and the selection of the valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the exercise of judgment by management. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties. As mentioned above, the key inputs used in the valuation model are the after tax earnings of our reporting units and the Companys market driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 were approximately 14, 15, and 31, respectively. In the event either the after tax earnings of the Companys reporting units or the Companys market earnings multiples decline significantly after the date the annual impairment test is performed, the Company will re perform the test at a date closer to fiscal year end. Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for fiscal years 2010 and 2009. 36 Table of Contents Changes in the inputs used in our valuation model (i.e., declines in the Companys average earnings multiple or the after tax earnings of our reporting units) could result in an indication of possible impairment of goodwill in the future. Fiscal 2010 Overview There were two events that occurred during fiscal 2010 that significantly affected the comparability of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 to its consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2009 and 2008: The Houston Sublease In response to the continuing effects brought on by the global recession, the Company initiated certain cost reduction measures during fiscal 2009. As part of those measures, we ceased using one of our offices located in Houston, Texas, and entered into a sublease for the entire property. This transaction occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Accordingly, included in net earnings for fiscal 2010 is a pre tax charge of $11.4 million relating to this real estate transaction. Net of the effects on the Companys incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the Houston Sublease resulted in a net, after tax charge of $5.8 million, or $0.04 per diluted share. The SIVOM Judgment During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (SIVOM). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Included in this amount is a $25.9 million write off of a claim receivable. The balance of the charge reflects the cash payments the Company made to the SIVOM, net of cash payments the Company received. Net of the effects of the charge on the Companys long term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share. In this MD&A, we discuss and analyze the Companys results of operations for fiscal 2010 before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment. Although such information is non U.S. GAAP in nature, it is presented because Management believes it provides a better view of the Companys operating results for the readers of this Annual Report on Form 10 K to assess the Companys performance and operating trends. 37 Table of Contents The following table presents (i) the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment (which is non U.S. GAAP); (ii) the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Litigation; and (iii) the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 in accordance with U.S. GAAP (in thousands, except earnings per share): Fiscal 2010 ConsolidatedResults of OperationsBefore the Effects ofthe Houston Subleaseand the SIVOMJudgment Effects of the HoustonSublease and theSIVOM Judgment Fiscal 2010ConsolidatedResults ofOperations(U.S. GAAP) Revenues $ 9,941,411 $ (25,894 ) $ 9,915,517 Costs and Expenses: Direct costs of contracts (8,524,271 ) (58,641 ) (8,582,912 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses (929,785 ) (2,737 ) (932,522 ) Operating Profit 487,355 (87,272 ) 400,083 Other Income (Expense): Interest income 3,647 1,144 4,791 Interest expense (5 ) (9,869 ) (9,874 ) Miscellaneous expense, net (3,066 ) (3,066 ) Total other income (expense), net 576 (8,725 ) (8,149 ) Earnings (Loss) Before Taxes 487,931 (95,997 ) 391,934 Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (175,543 ) 29,896 (145,647 ) Net Earnings (Loss) of the Group 312,388 (66,101 ) 246,287 Net (Income) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests (313 ) (313 ) Net Earnings (Loss) Attributable to Jacobs $ 312,075 $ (66,101 ) $ 245,974 Net Earnings (Loss) per Share Diluted $ 2.48 $ (0.52 ) $ 1.96 The Companys operating results for fiscal 2010 continue to be impacted by the global recession which began affecting the Company during the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The recession has caused many of our private sector clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. These economic conditions have also had a negative effect on many of our public sector clients as we have seen spending reductions by federal and state governments and the delay and curtailment of key infrastructure programs. The decline in revenues during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 occurred in most of the industries and markets we serve. With respect to the various categories of services we provide, the decline in revenues was more prevalent in the Field Services area of our business, and reflects the general decrease during the year in the amount of pass through costs we incurred on our projects. As discussed in last years MD&A, we implemented certain cost control measures last year in response to the effects of the recession. We reduced personnel and closed or re configured a number of our offices. The results of these actions contributed to a $10.5 million reduction in selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Although we continue to look for opportunities to reduce or minimize our operating costs, there is no guaranty that we will be able to identify additional opportunities and make further reductions. On the other hand, we are a very diversified business. We provide a wide range of services to customers operating in a wide range of industries and markets. Accordingly, we continue to believe that as the global economy begins to recover, and depending on which industries and markets start their recovery first, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on whatever increased capital spending occurs, both domestically and 38 Table of Contents internationally. Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $938.8 million at October 1, 2010. Our debt to equity ratio was 2.8% at the end of fiscal 2010, and we have over $257.1 million available under our various credit facilities. Results of Operations General Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories: Project Services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, and similar services); Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which includes services performed in connection with a wide variety of scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities); Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct hire construction and construction management services); and Operations and Maintenance services (which includes services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients as well as services involving process plant maintenance). The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single responsibility, design build contracts, to services required in the post start up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services. The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 Technical Professional Services Revenues: Project Services $ 4,224,898 $ 4,644,043 $ 5,128,456 Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 888,405 894,446 770,223 Total Technical Professional Services Revenues 5,113,303 5,538,489 5,898,679 Field Services Revenues: Construction (a) 3,747,995 4,763,640 4,239,439 Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 1,080,113 1,165,247 1,114,041 Total Field Services Revenues 4,828,108 5,928,887 5,353,480 $ 9,941,411 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. 39 Table of Contents We focus our services on clients operating in certain industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 Refining Downstream (b) $ 2,876,059 $ 3,850,734 $ 3,525,838 National Government Programs (c) 2,314,548 2,148,668 1,784,150 Chemicals and Polymers 1,203,373 1,210,027 1,409,868 Infrastructure 938,978 933,519 935,333 Buildings (c) 869,248 793,041 900,115 Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 589,795 875,007 978,867 Oil & Gas Upstream 559,492 895,284 1,102,743 Industrial and Other (a)(b) 589,918 761,096 615,245 $ 9,941,411 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. (b) Beginning in fiscal 2010, the industry group formerly called Energy & Refining Downstream has been renamed Refining Downstream, and revenues relating to projects for customers in the power industry have been reclassified to the category Industrial and Other. Industrial and Other now includes revenues from projects for our clients operating in the power; technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; food and consumer products; and basic resources industries, among others. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation. (c) Beginning in fiscal 2010, revenues relating to buildings projects performed for the U.S. federal government have been reclassified from the National Government Programs industry group to the Buildings market. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation Fiscal 2010 (before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment) Compared to Fiscal 2009 We recorded net earnings of $312.1 million, or $2.48 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010, compared to net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for fiscal 2009. Revenues for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 totaled $9.9 billion, and represents a decrease of $1.5 billion, or 13.3%, as compared to $11.5 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for clients operating in many of the industry groups and markets we serve were significantly lower as compared to fiscal 2009. The larger decreases occurred in the Refining Downstream; Oil & Gas Upstream; and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industry groups and markets. These declines relate to the normal winding down and completion of large projects, combined with the lack of new project awards. These industry groups and markets have also been significantly impacted by the global recession, causing many clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. Also contributing to the decline in revenues within these industry groups and markets was a $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, decrease in pass through costs (discussed below). In contrast, revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $165.9 million, or 7.7%, as compared to last year. Most of the increase relates to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, other technical services projects. 40 Table of Contents Similarly, revenues during fiscal 2010 relating to Buildings projects increased by $76.2 million, or 9.6%, as compared to last year. The increase relates to spending for the design of technical buildings. For the fiscal year 2010 we earned $176.8 million in revenues for projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.4 billion, or 14.0%, to $8.5 billion, compared to $9.9 billion for fiscal 2009. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, to $2.7 billion, compared to $4.0 billion for fiscal 2009. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.1 billion, or 18.6%, to $4.8 billion, compared to $5.9 billion for fiscal 2009. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.7% for fiscal 2010, compared to 86.4% for fiscal 2009. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2010 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2010 decreased by $10.5 million, or 1.1%, to $929.8 million, compared to $940.3 million for fiscal 2009. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in head count and the amount of spending required to support our technical professional services activities, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, it is not unusual to see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2010 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2010 decreased by $133.2 million, or 21.5%, to $487.4 million, compared to $620.6 million for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 4.9% for fiscal 2010, compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2009. This decrease in operating profit is due primarily to the overall decline in business volume. Interest income for fiscal 2010 decreased by $9.5 million, to $3.6 million, compared to $13.1 million for fiscal 2009. Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2010, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. 41 Table of Contents Interest expense for fiscal 2010 was nearly zero compared to $2.9 million for fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over the past several years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully in fiscal 2010. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 36.0% for fiscal 2010 unchanged from fiscal 2009. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 The Companys fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30 (determined on the basis of the number of workdays) and, accordingly, an additional week of activity is added every five to six years, such as in fiscal 2009. We recorded net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009, compared to net earnings of $420.7 million, or $3.38 per diluted share, for fiscal 2008. Although consolidated revenues for fiscal 2009 increased by $215.2 million, or 1.9%, from fiscal 2008, most of the increase occurred during the first two quarters of fiscal 2009 as the Company completed a number of projects for clients operating in several of the industries and markets we serve. During the second half of fiscal 2009, as the global economy continued to slow, revenues dropped off significantly, while project delays increased and awards of new contracts also slowed. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for clients operating in the Refining Downstream and the Oil & Gas Upstream industries increased a total of $117.4 million, or 2.5%, from fiscal 2008. All of the increase related to projects for clients operating in the energy & refinery sector and reflects the ramping up of work performed at a large, U.S. oil refinery. This increase was off set in part by the winding down of work on certain projects in the upstream sector of the petroleum market that were awarded to the Company in prior years when oil prices were at historically high levels. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $364.5 million, or 20.4%, from fiscal 2008. Most of the increase continues to relate to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, and other technical services. Although the Company performed services during fiscal 2009 for projects that were funded in part under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), such revenues were not significant. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries, and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industries as well as the Buildings market all declined as compared to fiscal 2008, as clients reviewed their capital expenditure plans in light of the global recession and delayed the release of new projects. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2009 increased $388.8 million, or 4.1%, to $9.9 billion, compared to $9.5 billion for fiscal 2008. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through cost we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these 42 Table of Contents amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs for fiscal 2009 increased $499.6 million, or 14.2%, to $4.0 billion, compared to $3.5 billion for fiscal 2008. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues for fiscal 2009 increased $575.4 million, or 10.7%, to $5.9 billion, compared to $5.4 billion for fiscal 2008. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 86.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 84.6% for fiscal 2008. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The increase in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 was due primarily to higher levels of pass through costs combined with a slight decrease in the margin rates earned on our technical professional services revenues. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2009 decreased by $151.1 million, or 13.8%, to $940.3 million, compared to $1.1 billion for fiscal 2008. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in head count and the spending required to support our technical professional services revenues, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, we typically see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses was due primarily to the decline in our project services revenues combined with managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2009 decreased by $22.5 million, or 3.5%, to $620.6 million, compared to $643.1 million for fiscal 2008. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 5.7% in fiscal 2008. This decrease in operating profit is due primarily to the overall decline in business volume, and in particular, the decrease in project services revenues. Interest income for fiscal 2009 decreased by $2.3 million, or 14.9%, to $13.1 million, compared to $15.4 million for fiscal 2008. Even though the Company maintained higher average cash balances during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Interest expense for fiscal 2009 decreased by $1.5 million, or 33.9%, to $2.9 million, compared to $4.4 million for fiscal 2008. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to lower average borrowings outstanding during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Miscellaneous expense, net for fiscal 2009 totaled $6.7 million as compared to miscellaneous income, net of $3.9 million for fiscal 2008. Included in miscellaneous income, net in fiscal 2008 was a $10.6 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in a business that provides specialized operations and maintenance services for highways and associated facilities. By excluding the gain from fiscal 2008, miscellaneous expense, net for fiscal 2008 would have been $6.7 million. 43 Table of Contents We recorded income tax expense of $224.9 million during fiscal 2009, compared to $236.7 million during fiscal 2008. Our overall effective tax rate in fiscal 2009 was 36% the same as fiscal 2008. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of October 1, 2010 (in thousands): Payments Due by Fiscal Period Total 1 Yearor Less 2 3Years 4 5Years More than5 Years Debt obligations $ 79,908 $ 79,399 $ 509 $ $ Operating leases (a) 769,953 172,573 201,578 166,042 229,760 Obligations under defined benefit pension plans (b) 396,939 37,978 80,574 87,149 191,238 Obligations under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (c) 83,371 6,629 14,064 15,212 47,466 Purchase obligations (d) 824,333 824,333 Total $ 2,154,504 $ 1,120,912 $ 296,725 $ 268,403 $ 468,464 (a) Assumes the Company will make end of lease term residual value guarantee payments of $35.3 million in 2011 and $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of two office buildings in Houston, Texas. (b) Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2011, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of October 1, 2010. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements. (c) Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2010, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of October 1, 2010. (d) Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of October 1, 2010. Backlog Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Technical professional services $ 7,588.9 $ 8,209.3 $ 8,085.2 Field services 5,613.1 7,010.1 8,611.4 Total $ 13,202.0 $ 15,219.4 $ 16,696.6 Because the entire value of a contract is added to backlog as soon as the contract is awarded to us (rather than adding the contracts to backlog gradually over time), and because many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years), we evaluate our backlog on a year over year basis, rather than on a sequential, quarter over quarter basis. Our backlog at October 1, 2010 decreased by $2.0 billion, or 13.3%, to $13.2 billion from $15.2 billion at October 2, 2009. 44 Table of Contents In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, adjustments were made to a variety of extended term, task order, indefinite quantity, and other similar contracts where it became clear that the full capacity of the previously recorded backlog amount would not be realized. Such negative adjustments totaled approximately $390.0 million and affected technical professional services. During fiscal 2009, approximately $1.9 billion was removed from backlog as a result of project cancellations. Approximately $2.4 billion was removed from backlog during fiscal 2008 relating to cancelled projects. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2010. While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog), $4.2 billion (or 27.7% of total backlog), and $3.4 billion (or 20.4% of total backlog) at October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009, and September 26, 2008, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts). Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $6.9 billion, or 52.3%, of total backlog at October 1, 2010 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year. Effects of Inflation The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in detail in Item 1A Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference. Liquidity and Capital Resources The three more significant and or nonrecurring uses of cash during fiscal 2010 was approximately $259.5 million for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired (approximately $236.2 million more than what was spent for acquisitions during fiscal 2009); approximately $108.5 million for purchases of investments (approximately $74.5 million more than what was spent for investments during fiscal 2009); and approximately $64.5 million representing the net cash outflow relating to the SIVOM Judgment. In spite of the $432.5 million of cash used for these transactions and events, our cash and cash equivalents decreased by only $94.8 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $429.2 million during fiscal 2009, and a decrease of $8.9 million during fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2010, we generated net cash inflows of $197.0 million from operating activities and $95.6 million from financing activities. These inflows were offset in part by outflows from investing activities and the effect of exchange rate changes of $374.4 million and $13.0 million, respectively. Our operations provided net cash of $197.0 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash inflows of $533.5 million and $313.4 million during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $336.5 million decrease in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to the following factors: a $188.3 million decrease relating to changes in our working capital accounts (discussed below); and, a $153.9 million decrease in net earnings. With respect to the $188.3 million decrease in cash flows relating to changes in our working capital accounts, there was no unusual activity occurring in these accounts during fiscal 2010. Because such a high 45 Table of Contents percentage of our revenues are earned on cost plus type contracts (86% and 85% of total revenues for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively), and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Companys working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Receivable consist of amounts owed to us by our clients a substantial portion of which is for project related costs. Billings in excess of costs consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred. This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique for our industry, and facilitates reviews of cash flow information at the total working capital level. The $188.3 million decrease in cash flows relating to changes in our working capital accounts was due primarily to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts, and reflects the general decline of the overall business in fiscal 2010 as compared to the prior year. We used $374.4 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash outflows of $94.9 million and $409.9 million during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $279.4 million increase in cash used for investing activities as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to acquisitions of businesses and changes in investments. During fiscal 2010 we acquired Jordan, Jones & Goulding, Inc. and TYBRIN Corporation, and we completed our investment in AWE Management Limited. Our financing activities resulted in net cash inflows of $95.6 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash outflows of $39.0 million during fiscal 2009 and net cash inflows of $98.8 million during fiscal 2008. The $134.6 million net increase in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to an $87.9 million change in the Companys borrowing activities along with a $54.5 million change in other deferred liabilities (relating primarily to the Companys defined benefit pension plans). We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations and service our debt for the next twelve months. We had $938.8 million in cash and cash equivalents at October 1, 2010, compared to $1.0 billion at October 2, 2009. Our consolidated working capital position at October 1, 2010 was $1.53 billion, compared to $1.52 billion at October 2, 2009, which management believes is adequate. We have a long term, unsecured, revolving credit facility providing up to $290.0 million of debt capacity, under which approximately $32.9 million was utilized at October 1, 2010 in the form of letters of credit only. We also have a short term credit facility in place at October 1, 2010 providing $79.4 million of debt capacity, which was entirely utilized as of that date. We believe that the capacity, terms and conditions of our committed credit facilities, combined with other uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements. Depending on the size of any business acquisition we complete in the future and the timing of when any such transaction may close, our current cash balances and existing credit facilities may not be sufficient to provide the amount of liquidity we may need. We believe, however, that we will be able to access the capital markets and fund future acquisitions if and when the need arises. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 46 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009 13 Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends certain guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605 25 (Revenue Recognition Multiple Element Arrangements). ASU 2009 13 requires entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. The amendments eliminate the residual method of revenue allocation and require revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method. ASU 2009 13 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2009 13, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167 Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (as codified in ASC 810 10. ASC 810 10 requires the Company to perform an analysis to determine whether its variable interests give the Company a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity. Such analysis requires the Company to assess whether it has the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity and if it has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. ASC 810 10 eliminates the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and significantly enhances disclosures. SFAS 167 is effective for the Company October 1, 2010. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this statement, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R Business Combinations (as codified in ASC 805). ASC 805 significantly changes the accounting and reporting for business combinations. Among other changes, ASC 805 requires acquisition related costs to be recognized separately from the acquisition; in a business combination achieved in stages, an acquiree to recognize the identifiable assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the full amounts of their fair values as of the acquisition date; an acquirer to recognize assets or liabilities from contingencies as of the acquisition date. The requirement to measure the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at fair value will result in recognizing the goodwill attributable to the noncontrolling interest in addition to that attributable to the acquirer. ASC 805 was effective for the Company October 3, 2009. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (as codified in ASC 810 10 65). ASC 810 10 65 significantly changes the accounting and reporting of noncontrolling (formerly known as minority) interests in consolidated financial statements. Among other changes, ASC 810 10 65 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements; establishes that net income attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest will be reported in the consolidated statement of earnings; and eliminates the requirement of purchase accounting for a parents acquisition of a noncontrolling ownership interest. ASC 810 10 65 was effective for the Company October 3, 2009. Depending on the size and nature of an acquisition, the adoption of ASC 810 10 and ASC 805 could have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our only committed source for long term credit is a $290.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility. There were no direct borrowings outstanding under this facility at October 1, 2010. This agreement expires in 47 Table of Contents May 2012, and provides for both fixed rate and variable rate borrowings. Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk are to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we continuously monitor changes in interest rates, and use cash provided from operations to re pay our borrowings as quickly as possible. Furthermore, the Company can use a combination of both fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage our exposure to interest rate risk. Foreign Currency Risk In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC 815 10 in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations. 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below, for a description of these matters and their effects on the Companys fiscal 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as for a reconciliation to the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP). 33 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long term engineering and construction type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entitys results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting polices are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage of completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in schedule; the cost of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. In some of the markets we serve there is an increasing trend towards cost reimbursable contracts with incentive fee arrangements. In certain instances, we base our incentive fees on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project. We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims. Certain cost reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly. 34 Table of Contents As is common in the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. For certain of these joint ventures (i.e., where we have an undivided interest in the assets and liabilities of the venture), we recognize our proportionate share of joint venture revenues, costs and operating profit in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For other investments in engineering and construction joint ventures, we use the equity method of accounting. Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to compute the grant date fair value of awards of equity instruments. The Black Scholes model requires the use of highly subjective assumptions in order to compute the hypothetical fair value of a stock option. Changes in these assumptions can cause drastically different values being assigned to a stock option. The value assigned to any stock options that may be awarded in the future as well as the related expense associated with any such awards will be dependent on the assumptions used at the time of award. Accounting for Pension Plans The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2010 ranged from 2.2% to 8.0%; this compares to a range of 2.3% to 8.0% for fiscal 2009. We believe the range of rates we applied for fiscal 2010 reflects the long term returns expected on the plans assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.5% to 5.6% in fiscal 2009 to a range of 2.1% to 5.1% in fiscal 2010. These assumptions represent the Companys best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled. Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the our net pension benefit obligation (PBO) at October 1, 2010 was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $182.0 million, and the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2010 would be lower (higher) by approximately $7.0 million. Similarly, if the expected return on plan assets were increased (decreased) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2011 would decrease (increase) by approximately $7.9 million. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used. Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts. 35 Table of Contents In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such insurance reserves in our consolidated results of operations. In addition, as a contractor providing services to the United States federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations. Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as Europe and Non Europe. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2010 Form 10 K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services. Our geography based reporting units reflect the Companys organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions. U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. We determined that a market approach is an appropriate method for valuing our reporting units in light of its common use as a technique for valuing businesses in general. Using this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Companys overall average market earnings multiple. Since the activities of each reporting unit approximates that of the Company overall, we concluded that the use of the Companys market multiple for purposes of applying the market based valuation approach was reasonable. We also believe that the use of this multiple is appropriate considering that both reporting units have qualitative characteristics that are generally consistent with those of the parent company. Those characteristics include size in terms of resources (i.e., personnel); a large, diverse client base; broad geographic reach; and a broad range of design, engineering, and construction and construction management capabilities. The determination of reporting units and the selection of the valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the exercise of judgment by management. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties. As mentioned above, the key inputs used in the valuation model are the after tax earnings of our reporting units and the Companys market driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 were approximately 14, 15, and 31, respectively. In the event either the after tax earnings of the Companys reporting units or the Companys market earnings multiples decline significantly after the date the annual impairment test is performed, the Company will re perform the test at a date closer to fiscal year end. Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for fiscal years 2010 and 2009. 36 Table of Contents Changes in the inputs used in our valuation model (i.e., declines in the Companys average earnings multiple or the after tax earnings of our reporting units) could result in an indication of possible impairment of goodwill in the future. Fiscal 2010 Overview There were two events that occurred during fiscal 2010 that significantly affected the comparability of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 to its consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2009 and 2008: The Houston Sublease In response to the continuing effects brought on by the global recession, the Company initiated certain cost reduction measures during fiscal 2009. As part of those measures, we ceased using one of our offices located in Houston, Texas, and entered into a sublease for the entire property. This transaction occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Accordingly, included in net earnings for fiscal 2010 is a pre tax charge of $11.4 million relating to this real estate transaction. Net of the effects on the Companys incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the Houston Sublease resulted in a net, after tax charge of $5.8 million, or $0.04 per diluted share. The SIVOM Judgment During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (SIVOM). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Included in this amount is a $25.9 million write off of a claim receivable. The balance of the charge reflects the cash payments the Company made to the SIVOM, net of cash payments the Company received. Net of the effects of the charge on the Companys long term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share. In this MD&A, we discuss and analyze the Companys results of operations for fiscal 2010 before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment. Although such information is non U.S. GAAP in nature, it is presented because Management believes it provides a better view of the Companys operating results for the readers of this Annual Report on Form 10 K to assess the Companys performance and operating trends. 37 Table of Contents The following table presents (i) the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment (which is non U.S. GAAP); (ii) the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Litigation; and (iii) the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 in accordance with U.S. GAAP (in thousands, except earnings per share): Fiscal 2010 ConsolidatedResults of OperationsBefore the Effects ofthe Houston Subleaseand the SIVOMJudgment Effects of the HoustonSublease and theSIVOM Judgment Fiscal 2010ConsolidatedResults ofOperations(U.S. GAAP) Revenues $ 9,941,411 $ (25,894 ) $ 9,915,517 Costs and Expenses: Direct costs of contracts (8,524,271 ) (58,641 ) (8,582,912 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses (929,785 ) (2,737 ) (932,522 ) Operating Profit 487,355 (87,272 ) 400,083 Other Income (Expense): Interest income 3,647 1,144 4,791 Interest expense (5 ) (9,869 ) (9,874 ) Miscellaneous expense, net (3,066 ) (3,066 ) Total other income (expense), net 576 (8,725 ) (8,149 ) Earnings (Loss) Before Taxes 487,931 (95,997 ) 391,934 Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (175,543 ) 29,896 (145,647 ) Net Earnings (Loss) of the Group 312,388 (66,101 ) 246,287 Net (Income) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests (313 ) (313 ) Net Earnings (Loss) Attributable to Jacobs $ 312,075 $ (66,101 ) $ 245,974 Net Earnings (Loss) per Share Diluted $ 2.48 $ (0.52 ) $ 1.96 The Companys operating results for fiscal 2010 continue to be impacted by the global recession which began affecting the Company during the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The recession has caused many of our private sector clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. These economic conditions have also had a negative effect on many of our public sector clients as we have seen spending reductions by federal and state governments and the delay and curtailment of key infrastructure programs. The decline in revenues during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 occurred in most of the industries and markets we serve. With respect to the various categories of services we provide, the decline in revenues was more prevalent in the Field Services area of our business, and reflects the general decrease during the year in the amount of pass through costs we incurred on our projects. As discussed in last years MD&A, we implemented certain cost control measures last year in response to the effects of the recession. We reduced personnel and closed or re configured a number of our offices. The results of these actions contributed to a $10.5 million reduction in selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Although we continue to look for opportunities to reduce or minimize our operating costs, there is no guaranty that we will be able to identify additional opportunities and make further reductions. On the other hand, we are a very diversified business. We provide a wide range of services to customers operating in a wide range of industries and markets. Accordingly, we continue to believe that as the global economy begins to recover, and depending on which industries and markets start their recovery first, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on whatever increased capital spending occurs, both domestically and 38 Table of Contents internationally. Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $938.8 million at October 1, 2010. Our debt to equity ratio was 2.8% at the end of fiscal 2010, and we have over $257.1 million available under our various credit facilities. Results of Operations General Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories: Project Services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, and similar services); Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which includes services performed in connection with a wide variety of scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities); Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct hire construction and construction management services); and Operations and Maintenance services (which includes services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients as well as services involving process plant maintenance). The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single responsibility, design build contracts, to services required in the post start up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services. The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 Technical Professional Services Revenues: Project Services $ 4,224,898 $ 4,644,043 $ 5,128,456 Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 888,405 894,446 770,223 Total Technical Professional Services Revenues 5,113,303 5,538,489 5,898,679 Field Services Revenues: Construction (a) 3,747,995 4,763,640 4,239,439 Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 1,080,113 1,165,247 1,114,041 Total Field Services Revenues 4,828,108 5,928,887 5,353,480 $ 9,941,411 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. 39 Table of Contents We focus our services on clients operating in certain industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 Refining Downstream (b) $ 2,876,059 $ 3,850,734 $ 3,525,838 National Government Programs (c) 2,314,548 2,148,668 1,784,150 Chemicals and Polymers 1,203,373 1,210,027 1,409,868 Infrastructure 938,978 933,519 935,333 Buildings (c) 869,248 793,041 900,115 Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 589,795 875,007 978,867 Oil & Gas Upstream 559,492 895,284 1,102,743 Industrial and Other (a)(b) 589,918 761,096 615,245 $ 9,941,411 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. (b) Beginning in fiscal 2010, the industry group formerly called Energy & Refining Downstream has been renamed Refining Downstream, and revenues relating to projects for customers in the power industry have been reclassified to the category Industrial and Other. Industrial and Other now includes revenues from projects for our clients operating in the power; technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; food and consumer products; and basic resources industries, among others. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation. (c) Beginning in fiscal 2010, revenues relating to buildings projects performed for the U.S. federal government have been reclassified from the National Government Programs industry group to the Buildings market. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation Fiscal 2010 (before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment) Compared to Fiscal 2009 We recorded net earnings of $312.1 million, or $2.48 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010, compared to net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for fiscal 2009. Revenues for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 totaled $9.9 billion, and represents a decrease of $1.5 billion, or 13.3%, as compared to $11.5 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for clients operating in many of the industry groups and markets we serve were significantly lower as compared to fiscal 2009. The larger decreases occurred in the Refining Downstream; Oil & Gas Upstream; and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industry groups and markets. These declines relate to the normal winding down and completion of large projects, combined with the lack of new project awards. These industry groups and markets have also been significantly impacted by the global recession, causing many clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. Also contributing to the decline in revenues within these industry groups and markets was a $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, decrease in pass through costs (discussed below). In contrast, revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $165.9 million, or 7.7%, as compared to last year. Most of the increase relates to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, other technical services projects. 40 Table of Contents Similarly, revenues during fiscal 2010 relating to Buildings projects increased by $76.2 million, or 9.6%, as compared to last year. The increase relates to spending for the design of technical buildings. For the fiscal year 2010 we earned $176.8 million in revenues for projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.4 billion, or 14.0%, to $8.5 billion, compared to $9.9 billion for fiscal 2009. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, to $2.7 billion, compared to $4.0 billion for fiscal 2009. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.1 billion, or 18.6%, to $4.8 billion, compared to $5.9 billion for fiscal 2009. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.7% for fiscal 2010, compared to 86.4% for fiscal 2009. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2010 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2010 decreased by $10.5 million, or 1.1%, to $929.8 million, compared to $940.3 million for fiscal 2009. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in head count and the amount of spending required to support our technical professional services activities, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, it is not unusual to see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2010 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2010 decreased by $133.2 million, or 21.5%, to $487.4 million, compared to $620.6 million for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 4.9% for fiscal 2010, compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2009. This decrease in operating profit is due primarily to the overall decline in business volume. Interest income for fiscal 2010 decreased by $9.5 million, to $3.6 million, compared to $13.1 million for fiscal 2009. Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2010, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. 41 Table of Contents Interest expense for fiscal 2010 was nearly zero compared to $2.9 million for fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over the past several years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully in fiscal 2010. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 36.0% for fiscal 2010 unchanged from fiscal 2009. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 The Companys fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30 (determined on the basis of the number of workdays) and, accordingly, an additional week of activity is added every five to six years, such as in fiscal 2009. We recorded net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009, compared to net earnings of $420.7 million, or $3.38 per diluted share, for fiscal 2008. Although consolidated revenues for fiscal 2009 increased by $215.2 million, or 1.9%, from fiscal 2008, most of the increase occurred during the first two quarters of fiscal 2009 as the Company completed a number of projects for clients operating in several of the industries and markets we serve. During the second half of fiscal 2009, as the global economy continued to slow, revenues dropped off significantly, while project delays increased and awards of new contracts also slowed. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for clients operating in the Refining Downstream and the Oil & Gas Upstream industries increased a total of $117.4 million, or 2.5%, from fiscal 2008. All of the increase related to projects for clients operating in the energy & refinery sector and reflects the ramping up of work performed at a large, U.S. oil refinery. This increase was off set in part by the winding down of work on certain projects in the upstream sector of the petroleum market that were awarded to the Company in prior years when oil prices were at historically high levels. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $364.5 million, or 20.4%, from fiscal 2008. Most of the increase continues to relate to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, and other technical services. Although the Company performed services during fiscal 2009 for projects that were funded in part under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), such revenues were not significant. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries, and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industries as well as the Buildings market all declined as compared to fiscal 2008, as clients reviewed their capital expenditure plans in light of the global recession and delayed the release of new projects. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2009 increased $388.8 million, or 4.1%, to $9.9 billion, compared to $9.5 billion for fiscal 2008. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through cost we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these 42 Table of Contents amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs for fiscal 2009 increased $499.6 million, or 14.2%, to $4.0 billion, compared to $3.5 billion for fiscal 2008. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues for fiscal 2009 increased $575.4 million, or 10.7%, to $5.9 billion, compared to $5.4 billion for fiscal 2008. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 86.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 84.6% for fiscal 2008. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The increase in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 was due primarily to higher levels of pass through costs combined with a slight decrease in the margin rates earned on our technical professional services revenues. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2009 decreased by $151.1 million, or 13.8%, to $940.3 million, compared to $1.1 billion for fiscal 2008. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in head count and the spending required to support our technical professional services revenues, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, we typically see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses was due primarily to the decline in our project services revenues combined with managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2009 decreased by $22.5 million, or 3.5%, to $620.6 million, compared to $643.1 million for fiscal 2008. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 5.7% in fiscal 2008. This decrease in operating profit is due primarily to the overall decline in business volume, and in particular, the decrease in project services revenues. Interest income for fiscal 2009 decreased by $2.3 million, or 14.9%, to $13.1 million, compared to $15.4 million for fiscal 2008. Even though the Company maintained higher average cash balances during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Interest expense for fiscal 2009 decreased by $1.5 million, or 33.9%, to $2.9 million, compared to $4.4 million for fiscal 2008. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to lower average borrowings outstanding during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Miscellaneous expense, net for fiscal 2009 totaled $6.7 million as compared to miscellaneous income, net of $3.9 million for fiscal 2008. Included in miscellaneous income, net in fiscal 2008 was a $10.6 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in a business that provides specialized operations and maintenance services for highways and associated facilities. By excluding the gain from fiscal 2008, miscellaneous expense, net for fiscal 2008 would have been $6.7 million. 43 Table of Contents We recorded income tax expense of $224.9 million during fiscal 2009, compared to $236.7 million during fiscal 2008. Our overall effective tax rate in fiscal 2009 was 36% the same as fiscal 2008. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of October 1, 2010 (in thousands): Payments Due by Fiscal Period Total 1 Yearor Less 2 3Years 4 5Years More than5 Years Debt obligations $ 79,908 $ 79,399 $ 509 $ $ Operating leases (a) 769,953 172,573 201,578 166,042 229,760 Obligations under defined benefit pension plans (b) 396,939 37,978 80,574 87,149 191,238 Obligations under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (c) 83,371 6,629 14,064 15,212 47,466 Purchase obligations (d) 824,333 824,333 Total $ 2,154,504 $ 1,120,912 $ 296,725 $ 268,403 $ 468,464 (a) Assumes the Company will make end of lease term residual value guarantee payments of $35.3 million in 2011 and $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of two office buildings in Houston, Texas. (b) Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2011, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of October 1, 2010. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements. (c) Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2010, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of October 1, 2010. (d) Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of October 1, 2010. Backlog Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Technical professional services $ 7,588.9 $ 8,209.3 $ 8,085.2 Field services 5,613.1 7,010.1 8,611.4 Total $ 13,202.0 $ 15,219.4 $ 16,696.6 Because the entire value of a contract is added to backlog as soon as the contract is awarded to us (rather than adding the contracts to backlog gradually over time), and because many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years), we evaluate our backlog on a year over year basis, rather than on a sequential, quarter over quarter basis. Our backlog at October 1, 2010 decreased by $2.0 billion, or 13.3%, to $13.2 billion from $15.2 billion at October 2, 2009. 44 Table of Contents In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, adjustments were made to a variety of extended term, task order, indefinite quantity, and other similar contracts where it became clear that the full capacity of the previously recorded backlog amount would not be realized. Such negative adjustments totaled approximately $390.0 million and affected technical professional services. During fiscal 2009, approximately $1.9 billion was removed from backlog as a result of project cancellations. Approximately $2.4 billion was removed from backlog during fiscal 2008 relating to cancelled projects. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2010. While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog), $4.2 billion (or 27.7% of total backlog), and $3.4 billion (or 20.4% of total backlog) at October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009, and September 26, 2008, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts). Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $6.9 billion, or 52.3%, of total backlog at October 1, 2010 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year. Effects of Inflation The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in detail in Item 1A Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference. Liquidity and Capital Resources The three more significant and or nonrecurring uses of cash during fiscal 2010 was approximately $259.5 million for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired (approximately $236.2 million more than what was spent for acquisitions during fiscal 2009); approximately $108.5 million for purchases of investments (approximately $74.5 million more than what was spent for investments during fiscal 2009); and approximately $64.5 million representing the net cash outflow relating to the SIVOM Judgment. In spite of the $432.5 million of cash used for these transactions and events, our cash and cash equivalents decreased by only $94.8 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $429.2 million during fiscal 2009, and a decrease of $8.9 million during fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2010, we generated net cash inflows of $197.0 million from operating activities and $95.6 million from financing activities. These inflows were offset in part by outflows from investing activities and the effect of exchange rate changes of $374.4 million and $13.0 million, respectively. Our operations provided net cash of $197.0 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash inflows of $533.5 million and $313.4 million during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $336.5 million decrease in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to the following factors: a $188.3 million decrease relating to changes in our working capital accounts (discussed below); and, a $153.9 million decrease in net earnings. With respect to the $188.3 million decrease in cash flows relating to changes in our working capital accounts, there was no unusual activity occurring in these accounts during fiscal 2010. Because such a high 45 Table of Contents percentage of our revenues are earned on cost plus type contracts (86% and 85% of total revenues for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively), and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Companys working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Receivable consist of amounts owed to us by our clients a substantial portion of which is for project related costs. Billings in excess of costs consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred. This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique for our industry, and facilitates reviews of cash flow information at the total working capital level. The $188.3 million decrease in cash flows relating to changes in our working capital accounts was due primarily to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts, and reflects the general decline of the overall business in fiscal 2010 as compared to the prior year. We used $374.4 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash outflows of $94.9 million and $409.9 million during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $279.4 million increase in cash used for investing activities as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to acquisitions of businesses and changes in investments. During fiscal 2010 we acquired Jordan, Jones & Goulding, Inc. and TYBRIN Corporation, and we completed our investment in AWE Management Limited. Our financing activities resulted in net cash inflows of $95.6 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash outflows of $39.0 million during fiscal 2009 and net cash inflows of $98.8 million during fiscal 2008. The $134.6 million net increase in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to an $87.9 million change in the Companys borrowing activities along with a $54.5 million change in other deferred liabilities (relating primarily to the Companys defined benefit pension plans). We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations and service our debt for the next twelve months. We had $938.8 million in cash and cash equivalents at October 1, 2010, compared to $1.0 billion at October 2, 2009. Our consolidated working capital position at October 1, 2010 was $1.53 billion, compared to $1.52 billion at October 2, 2009, which management believes is adequate. We have a long term, unsecured, revolving credit facility providing up to $290.0 million of debt capacity, under which approximately $32.9 million was utilized at October 1, 2010 in the form of letters of credit only. We also have a short term credit facility in place at October 1, 2010 providing $79.4 million of debt capacity, which was entirely utilized as of that date. We believe that the capacity, terms and conditions of our committed credit facilities, combined with other uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements. Depending on the size of any business acquisition we complete in the future and the timing of when any such transaction may close, our current cash balances and existing credit facilities may not be sufficient to provide the amount of liquidity we may need. We believe, however, that we will be able to access the capital markets and fund future acquisitions if and when the need arises. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 46 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009 13 Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends certain guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605 25 (Revenue Recognition Multiple Element Arrangements). ASU 2009 13 requires entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. The amendments eliminate the residual method of revenue allocation and require revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method. ASU 2009 13 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2009 13, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167 Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (as codified in ASC 810 10. ASC 810 10 requires the Company to perform an analysis to determine whether its variable interests give the Company a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity. Such analysis requires the Company to assess whether it has the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity and if it has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. ASC 810 10 eliminates the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and significantly enhances disclosures. SFAS 167 is effective for the Company October 1, 2010. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this statement, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R Business Combinations (as codified in ASC 805). ASC 805 significantly changes the accounting and reporting for business combinations. Among other changes, ASC 805 requires acquisition related costs to be recognized separately from the acquisition; in a business combination achieved in stages, an acquiree to recognize the identifiable assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the full amounts of their fair values as of the acquisition date; an acquirer to recognize assets or liabilities from contingencies as of the acquisition date. The requirement to measure the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at fair value will result in recognizing the goodwill attributable to the noncontrolling interest in addition to that attributable to the acquirer. ASC 805 was effective for the Company October 3, 2009. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (as codified in ASC 810 10 65). ASC 810 10 65 significantly changes the accounting and reporting of noncontrolling (formerly known as minority) interests in consolidated financial statements. Among other changes, ASC 810 10 65 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements; establishes that net income attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest will be reported in the consolidated statement of earnings; and eliminates the requirement of purchase accounting for a parents acquisition of a noncontrolling ownership interest. ASC 810 10 65 was effective for the Company October 3, 2009. Depending on the size and nature of an acquisition, the adoption of ASC 810 10 and ASC 805 could have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our only committed source for long term credit is a $290.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility. There were no direct borrowings outstanding under this facility at October 1, 2010. This agreement expires in 47 Table of Contents May 2012, and provides for both fixed rate and variable rate borrowings. Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk are to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we continuously monitor changes in interest rates, and use cash provided from operations to re pay our borrowings as quickly as possible. Furthermore, the Company can use a combination of both fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage our exposure to interest rate risk. Foreign Currency Risk In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC 815 10 in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long term engineering and construction type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entitys results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting polices are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage of completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in schedule; the cost of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. In some of the markets we serve there is an increasing trend towards cost reimbursable contracts with incentive fee arrangements. In certain instances, we base our incentive fees on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project. We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims. Certain cost reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly. 34 Table of Contents As is common in the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. For certain of these joint ventures (i.e., where we have an undivided interest in the assets and liabilities of the venture), we recognize our proportionate share of joint venture revenues, costs and operating profit in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For other investments in engineering and construction joint ventures, we use the equity method of accounting. Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to compute the grant date fair value of awards of equity instruments. The Black Scholes model requires the use of highly subjective assumptions in order to compute the hypothetical fair value of a stock option. Changes in these assumptions can cause drastically different values being assigned to a stock option. The value assigned to any stock options that may be awarded in the future as well as the related expense associated with any such awards will be dependent on the assumptions used at the time of award. Accounting for Pension Plans The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2010 ranged from 2.2% to 8.0%; this compares to a range of 2.3% to 8.0% for fiscal 2009. We believe the range of rates we applied for fiscal 2010 reflects the long term returns expected on the plans assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.5% to 5.6% in fiscal 2009 to a range of 2.1% to 5.1% in fiscal 2010. These assumptions represent the Companys best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled. Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the our net pension benefit obligation (PBO) at October 1, 2010 was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $182.0 million, and the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2010 would be lower (higher) by approximately $7.0 million. Similarly, if the expected return on plan assets were increased (decreased) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2011 would decrease (increase) by approximately $7.9 million. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used. Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts. 35 Table of Contents In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such insurance reserves in our consolidated results of operations. In addition, as a contractor providing services to the United States federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations. Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as Europe and Non Europe. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2010 Form 10 K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services. Our geography based reporting units reflect the Companys organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions. U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. We determined that a market approach is an appropriate method for valuing our reporting units in light of its common use as a technique for valuing businesses in general. Using this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Companys overall average market earnings multiple. Since the activities of each reporting unit approximates that of the Company overall, we concluded that the use of the Companys market multiple for purposes of applying the market based valuation approach was reasonable. We also believe that the use of this multiple is appropriate considering that both reporting units have qualitative characteristics that are generally consistent with those of the parent company. Those characteristics include size in terms of resources (i.e., personnel); a large, diverse client base; broad geographic reach; and a broad range of design, engineering, and construction and construction management capabilities. The determination of reporting units and the selection of the valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the exercise of judgment by management. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties. As mentioned above, the key inputs used in the valuation model are the after tax earnings of our reporting units and the Companys market driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 were approximately 14, 15, and 31, respectively. In the event either the after tax earnings of the Companys reporting units or the Companys market earnings multiples decline significantly after the date the annual impairment test is performed, the Company will re perform the test at a date closer to fiscal year end. Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for fiscal years 2010 and 2009. 36 Table of Contents Changes in the inputs used in our valuation model (i.e., declines in the Companys average earnings multiple or the after tax earnings of our reporting units) could result in an indication of possible impairment of goodwill in the future. Fiscal 2010 Overview There were two events that occurred during fiscal 2010 that significantly affected the comparability of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 to its consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2009 and 2008: The Houston Sublease In response to the continuing effects brought on by the global recession, the Company initiated certain cost reduction measures during fiscal 2009. As part of those measures, we ceased using one of our offices located in Houston, Texas, and entered into a sublease for the entire property. This transaction occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Accordingly, included in net earnings for fiscal 2010 is a pre tax charge of $11.4 million relating to this real estate transaction. Net of the effects on the Companys incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the Houston Sublease resulted in a net, after tax charge of $5.8 million, or $0.04 per diluted share. The SIVOM Judgment During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (SIVOM). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Included in this amount is a $25.9 million write off of a claim receivable. The balance of the charge reflects the cash payments the Company made to the SIVOM, net of cash payments the Company received. Net of the effects of the charge on the Companys long term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share. In this MD&A, we discuss and analyze the Companys results of operations for fiscal 2010 before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment. Although such information is non U.S. GAAP in nature, it is presented because Management believes it provides a better view of the Companys operating results for the readers of this Annual Report on Form 10 K to assess the Companys performance and operating trends. 37 Table of Contents The following table presents (i) the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment (which is non U.S. GAAP); (ii) the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Litigation; and (iii) the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 in accordance with U.S. GAAP (in thousands, except earnings per share): Fiscal 2010 ConsolidatedResults of OperationsBefore the Effects ofthe Houston Subleaseand the SIVOMJudgment Effects of the HoustonSublease and theSIVOM Judgment Fiscal 2010ConsolidatedResults ofOperations(U.S. GAAP) Revenues $ 9,941,411 $ (25,894 ) $ 9,915,517 Costs and Expenses: Direct costs of contracts (8,524,271 ) (58,641 ) (8,582,912 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses (929,785 ) (2,737 ) (932,522 ) Operating Profit 487,355 (87,272 ) 400,083 Other Income (Expense): Interest income 3,647 1,144 4,791 Interest expense (5 ) (9,869 ) (9,874 ) Miscellaneous expense, net (3,066 ) (3,066 ) Total other income (expense), net 576 (8,725 ) (8,149 ) Earnings (Loss) Before Taxes 487,931 (95,997 ) 391,934 Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (175,543 ) 29,896 (145,647 ) Net Earnings (Loss) of the Group 312,388 (66,101 ) 246,287 Net (Income) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests (313 ) (313 ) Net Earnings (Loss) Attributable to Jacobs $ 312,075 $ (66,101 ) $ 245,974 Net Earnings (Loss) per Share Diluted $ 2.48 $ (0.52 ) $ 1.96 The Companys operating results for fiscal 2010 continue to be impacted by the global recession which began affecting the Company during the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The recession has caused many of our private sector clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. These economic conditions have also had a negative effect on many of our public sector clients as we have seen spending reductions by federal and state governments and the delay and curtailment of key infrastructure programs. The decline in revenues during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 occurred in most of the industries and markets we serve. With respect to the various categories of services we provide, the decline in revenues was more prevalent in the Field Services area of our business, and reflects the general decrease during the year in the amount of pass through costs we incurred on our projects. As discussed in last years MD&A, we implemented certain cost control measures last year in response to the effects of the recession. We reduced personnel and closed or re configured a number of our offices. The results of these actions contributed to a $10.5 million reduction in selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Although we continue to look for opportunities to reduce or minimize our operating costs, there is no guaranty that we will be able to identify additional opportunities and make further reductions. On the other hand, we are a very diversified business. We provide a wide range of services to customers operating in a wide range of industries and markets. Accordingly, we continue to believe that as the global economy begins to recover, and depending on which industries and markets start their recovery first, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on whatever increased capital spending occurs, both domestically and 38 Table of Contents internationally. Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $938.8 million at October 1, 2010. Our debt to equity ratio was 2.8% at the end of fiscal 2010, and we have over $257.1 million available under our various credit facilities. Results of Operations General Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories: Project Services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, and similar services); Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which includes services performed in connection with a wide variety of scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities); Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct hire construction and construction management services); and Operations and Maintenance services (which includes services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients as well as services involving process plant maintenance). The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single responsibility, design build contracts, to services required in the post start up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services. The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 Technical Professional Services Revenues: Project Services $ 4,224,898 $ 4,644,043 $ 5,128,456 Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 888,405 894,446 770,223 Total Technical Professional Services Revenues 5,113,303 5,538,489 5,898,679 Field Services Revenues: Construction (a) 3,747,995 4,763,640 4,239,439 Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 1,080,113 1,165,247 1,114,041 Total Field Services Revenues 4,828,108 5,928,887 5,353,480 $ 9,941,411 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. 39 Table of Contents We focus our services on clients operating in certain industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 Refining Downstream (b) $ 2,876,059 $ 3,850,734 $ 3,525,838 National Government Programs (c) 2,314,548 2,148,668 1,784,150 Chemicals and Polymers 1,203,373 1,210,027 1,409,868 Infrastructure 938,978 933,519 935,333 Buildings (c) 869,248 793,041 900,115 Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 589,795 875,007 978,867 Oil & Gas Upstream 559,492 895,284 1,102,743 Industrial and Other (a)(b) 589,918 761,096 615,245 $ 9,941,411 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. (b) Beginning in fiscal 2010, the industry group formerly called Energy & Refining Downstream has been renamed Refining Downstream, and revenues relating to projects for customers in the power industry have been reclassified to the category Industrial and Other. Industrial and Other now includes revenues from projects for our clients operating in the power; technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; food and consumer products; and basic resources industries, among others. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation. (c) Beginning in fiscal 2010, revenues relating to buildings projects performed for the U.S. federal government have been reclassified from the National Government Programs industry group to the Buildings market. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation Fiscal 2010 (before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment) Compared to Fiscal 2009 We recorded net earnings of $312.1 million, or $2.48 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010, compared to net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for fiscal 2009. Revenues for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 totaled $9.9 billion, and represents a decrease of $1.5 billion, or 13.3%, as compared to $11.5 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for clients operating in many of the industry groups and markets we serve were significantly lower as compared to fiscal 2009. The larger decreases occurred in the Refining Downstream; Oil & Gas Upstream; and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industry groups and markets. These declines relate to the normal winding down and completion of large projects, combined with the lack of new project awards. These industry groups and markets have also been significantly impacted by the global recession, causing many clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. Also contributing to the decline in revenues within these industry groups and markets was a $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, decrease in pass through costs (discussed below). In contrast, revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $165.9 million, or 7.7%, as compared to last year. Most of the increase relates to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, other technical services projects. 40 Table of Contents Similarly, revenues during fiscal 2010 relating to Buildings projects increased by $76.2 million, or 9.6%, as compared to last year. The increase relates to spending for the design of technical buildings. For the fiscal year 2010 we earned $176.8 million in revenues for projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.4 billion, or 14.0%, to $8.5 billion, compared to $9.9 billion for fiscal 2009. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, to $2.7 billion, compared to $4.0 billion for fiscal 2009. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.1 billion, or 18.6%, to $4.8 billion, compared to $5.9 billion for fiscal 2009. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.7% for fiscal 2010, compared to 86.4% for fiscal 2009. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2010 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2010 decreased by $10.5 million, or 1.1%, to $929.8 million, compared to $940.3 million for fiscal 2009. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in head count and the amount of spending required to support our technical professional services activities, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, it is not unusual to see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2010 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2010 decreased by $133.2 million, or 21.5%, to $487.4 million, compared to $620.6 million for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 4.9% for fiscal 2010, compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2009. This decrease in operating profit is due primarily to the overall decline in business volume. Interest income for fiscal 2010 decreased by $9.5 million, to $3.6 million, compared to $13.1 million for fiscal 2009. Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2010, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. 41 Table of Contents Interest expense for fiscal 2010 was nearly zero compared to $2.9 million for fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over the past several years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully in fiscal 2010. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 36.0% for fiscal 2010 unchanged from fiscal 2009. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 The Companys fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30 (determined on the basis of the number of workdays) and, accordingly, an additional week of activity is added every five to six years, such as in fiscal 2009. We recorded net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009, compared to net earnings of $420.7 million, or $3.38 per diluted share, for fiscal 2008. Although consolidated revenues for fiscal 2009 increased by $215.2 million, or 1.9%, from fiscal 2008, most of the increase occurred during the first two quarters of fiscal 2009 as the Company completed a number of projects for clients operating in several of the industries and markets we serve. During the second half of fiscal 2009, as the global economy continued to slow, revenues dropped off significantly, while project delays increased and awards of new contracts also slowed. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for clients operating in the Refining Downstream and the Oil & Gas Upstream industries increased a total of $117.4 million, or 2.5%, from fiscal 2008. All of the increase related to projects for clients operating in the energy & refinery sector and reflects the ramping up of work performed at a large, U.S. oil refinery. This increase was off set in part by the winding down of work on certain projects in the upstream sector of the petroleum market that were awarded to the Company in prior years when oil prices were at historically high levels. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $364.5 million, or 20.4%, from fiscal 2008. Most of the increase continues to relate to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, and other technical services. Although the Company performed services during fiscal 2009 for projects that were funded in part under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), such revenues were not significant. Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries, and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industries as well as the Buildings market all declined as compared to fiscal 2008, as clients reviewed their capital expenditure plans in light of the global recession and delayed the release of new projects. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2009 increased $388.8 million, or 4.1%, to $9.9 billion, compared to $9.5 billion for fiscal 2008. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through cost we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these 42 Table of Contents amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs for fiscal 2009 increased $499.6 million, or 14.2%, to $4.0 billion, compared to $3.5 billion for fiscal 2008. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues for fiscal 2009 increased $575.4 million, or 10.7%, to $5.9 billion, compared to $5.4 billion for fiscal 2008. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 86.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 84.6% for fiscal 2008. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The increase in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 was due primarily to higher levels of pass through costs combined with a slight decrease in the margin rates earned on our technical professional services revenues. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2009 decreased by $151.1 million, or 13.8%, to $940.3 million, compared to $1.1 billion for fiscal 2008. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in head count and the spending required to support our technical professional services revenues, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, we typically see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses was due primarily to the decline in our project services revenues combined with managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2009 decreased by $22.5 million, or 3.5%, to $620.6 million, compared to $643.1 million for fiscal 2008. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 5.7% in fiscal 2008. This decrease in operating profit is due primarily to the overall decline in business volume, and in particular, the decrease in project services revenues. Interest income for fiscal 2009 decreased by $2.3 million, or 14.9%, to $13.1 million, compared to $15.4 million for fiscal 2008. Even though the Company maintained higher average cash balances during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Interest expense for fiscal 2009 decreased by $1.5 million, or 33.9%, to $2.9 million, compared to $4.4 million for fiscal 2008. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to lower average borrowings outstanding during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Miscellaneous expense, net for fiscal 2009 totaled $6.7 million as compared to miscellaneous income, net of $3.9 million for fiscal 2008. Included in miscellaneous income, net in fiscal 2008 was a $10.6 million gain from the sale of the Companys interest in a business that provides specialized operations and maintenance services for highways and associated facilities. By excluding the gain from fiscal 2008, miscellaneous expense, net for fiscal 2008 would have been $6.7 million. 43 Table of Contents We recorded income tax expense of $224.9 million during fiscal 2009, compared to $236.7 million during fiscal 2008. Our overall effective tax rate in fiscal 2009 was 36% the same as fiscal 2008. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of October 1, 2010 (in thousands): Payments Due by Fiscal Period Total 1 Yearor Less 2 3Years 4 5Years More than5 Years Debt obligations $ 79,908 $ 79,399 $ 509 $ $ Operating leases (a) 769,953 172,573 201,578 166,042 229,760 Obligations under defined benefit pension plans (b) 396,939 37,978 80,574 87,149 191,238 Obligations under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (c) 83,371 6,629 14,064 15,212 47,466 Purchase obligations (d) 824,333 824,333 Total $ 2,154,504 $ 1,120,912 $ 296,725 $ 268,403 $ 468,464 (a) Assumes the Company will make end of lease term residual value guarantee payments of $35.3 million in 2011 and $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of two office buildings in Houston, Texas. (b) Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2011, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of October 1, 2010. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements. (c) Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2010, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of October 1, 2010. (d) Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of October 1, 2010. Backlog Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Technical professional services $ 7,588.9 $ 8,209.3 $ 8,085.2 Field services 5,613.1 7,010.1 8,611.4 Total $ 13,202.0 $ 15,219.4 $ 16,696.6 Because the entire value of a contract is added to backlog as soon as the contract is awarded to us (rather than adding the contracts to backlog gradually over time), and because many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years), we evaluate our backlog on a year over year basis, rather than on a sequential, quarter over quarter basis. Our backlog at October 1, 2010 decreased by $2.0 billion, or 13.3%, to $13.2 billion from $15.2 billion at October 2, 2009. 44 Table of Contents In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, adjustments were made to a variety of extended term, task order, indefinite quantity, and other similar contracts where it became clear that the full capacity of the previously recorded backlog amount would not be realized. Such negative adjustments totaled approximately $390.0 million and affected technical professional services. During fiscal 2009, approximately $1.9 billion was removed from backlog as a result of project cancellations. Approximately $2.4 billion was removed from backlog during fiscal 2008 relating to cancelled projects. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2010. While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog), $4.2 billion (or 27.7% of total backlog), and $3.4 billion (or 20.4% of total backlog) at October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009, and September 26, 2008, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts). Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $6.9 billion, or 52.3%, of total backlog at October 1, 2010 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year. Effects of Inflation The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in detail in Item 1A Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference. Liquidity and Capital Resources The three more significant and or nonrecurring uses of cash during fiscal 2010 was approximately $259.5 million for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired (approximately $236.2 million more than what was spent for acquisitions during fiscal 2009); approximately $108.5 million for purchases of investments (approximately $74.5 million more than what was spent for investments during fiscal 2009); and approximately $64.5 million representing the net cash outflow relating to the SIVOM Judgment. In spite of the $432.5 million of cash used for these transactions and events, our cash and cash equivalents decreased by only $94.8 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $429.2 million during fiscal 2009, and a decrease of $8.9 million during fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2010, we generated net cash inflows of $197.0 million from operating activities and $95.6 million from financing activities. These inflows were offset in part by outflows from investing activities and the effect of exchange rate changes of $374.4 million and $13.0 million, respectively. Our operations provided net cash of $197.0 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash inflows of $533.5 million and $313.4 million during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $336.5 million decrease in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to the following factors: a $188.3 million decrease relating to changes in our working capital accounts (discussed below); and, a $153.9 million decrease in net earnings. With respect to the $188.3 million decrease in cash flows relating to changes in our working capital accounts, there was no unusual activity occurring in these accounts during fiscal 2010. Because such a high 45 Table of Contents percentage of our revenues are earned on cost plus type contracts (86% and 85% of total revenues for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively), and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Companys working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Receivable consist of amounts owed to us by our clients a substantial portion of which is for project related costs. Billings in excess of costs consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred. This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique for our industry, and facilitates reviews of cash flow information at the total working capital level. The $188.3 million decrease in cash flows relating to changes in our working capital accounts was due primarily to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts, and reflects the general decline of the overall business in fiscal 2010 as compared to the prior year. We used $374.4 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash outflows of $94.9 million and $409.9 million during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $279.4 million increase in cash used for investing activities as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to acquisitions of businesses and changes in investments. During fiscal 2010 we acquired Jordan, Jones & Goulding, Inc. and TYBRIN Corporation, and we completed our investment in AWE Management Limited. Our financing activities resulted in net cash inflows of $95.6 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash outflows of $39.0 million during fiscal 2009 and net cash inflows of $98.8 million during fiscal 2008. The $134.6 million net increase in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to an $87.9 million change in the Companys borrowing activities along with a $54.5 million change in other deferred liabilities (relating primarily to the Companys defined benefit pension plans). We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations and service our debt for the next twelve months. We had $938.8 million in cash and cash equivalents at October 1, 2010, compared to $1.0 billion at October 2, 2009. Our consolidated working capital position at October 1, 2010 was $1.53 billion, compared to $1.52 billion at October 2, 2009, which management believes is adequate. We have a long term, unsecured, revolving credit facility providing up to $290.0 million of debt capacity, under which approximately $32.9 million was utilized at October 1, 2010 in the form of letters of credit only. We also have a short term credit facility in place at October 1, 2010 providing $79.4 million of debt capacity, which was entirely utilized as of that date. We believe that the capacity, terms and conditions of our committed credit facilities, combined with other uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements. Depending on the size of any business acquisition we complete in the future and the timing of when any such transaction may close, our current cash balances and existing credit facilities may not be sufficient to provide the amount of liquidity we may need. We believe, however, that we will be able to access the capital markets and fund future acquisitions if and when the need arises. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 46 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009 13 Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends certain guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605 25 (Revenue Recognition Multiple Element Arrangements). ASU 2009 13 requires entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. The amendments eliminate the residual method of revenue allocation and require revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method. ASU 2009 13 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2009 13, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167 Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (as codified in ASC 810 10. ASC 810 10 requires the Company to perform an analysis to determine whether its variable interests give the Company a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity. Such analysis requires the Company to assess whether it has the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity and if it has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. ASC 810 10 eliminates the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and significantly enhances disclosures. SFAS 167 is effective for the Company October 1, 2010. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this statement, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R Business Combinations (as codified in ASC 805). ASC 805 significantly changes the accounting and reporting for business combinations. Among other changes, ASC 805 requires acquisition related costs to be recognized separately from the acquisition; in a business combination achieved in stages, an acquiree to recognize the identifiable assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the full amounts of their fair values as of the acquisition date; an acquirer to recognize assets or liabilities from contingencies as of the acquisition date. The requirement to measure the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at fair value will result in recognizing the goodwill attributable to the noncontrolling interest in addition to that attributable to the acquirer. ASC 805 was effective for the Company October 3, 2009. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (as codified in ASC 810 10 65). ASC 810 10 65 significantly changes the accounting and reporting of noncontrolling (formerly known as minority) interests in consolidated financial statements. Among other changes, ASC 810 10 65 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements; establishes that net income attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest will be reported in the consolidated statement of earnings; and eliminates the requirement of purchase accounting for a parents acquisition of a noncontrolling ownership interest. ASC 810 10 65 was effective for the Company October 3, 2009. Depending on the size and nature of an acquisition, the adoption of ASC 810 10 and ASC 805 could have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our only committed source for long term credit is a $290.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility. There were no direct borrowings outstanding under this facility at October 1, 2010. This agreement expires in 47 Table of Contents May 2012, and provides for both fixed rate and variable rate borrowings. Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk are to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we continuously monitor changes in interest rates, and use cash provided from operations to re pay our borrowings as quickly as possible. Furthermore, the Company can use a combination of both fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage our exposure to interest rate risk. Foreign Currency Risk In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC 815 10 in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations. 
 
