Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below. Page 14 Table of Contents Significant Customers The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government for each of the last five fiscal years: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 24.4% 25.4 % 20.3 % 16.8 % 16.6 % It is uncommon for a commercial customer to contribute 10% or more of the Companys total revenues. On occasion, however, we will perform a number of field services projects for a single customer in the same fiscal year which, primarily because of the amount of pass through costs (discussed below) that is included in revenue, will cause total revenue from that customer to exceed 10% of total consolidated revenues. For the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009 revenues earned from Motiva Enterprises LLC accounted for 12.2% of total consolidated revenues. Financial Information About Geographic Areas Selected financial information regarding the geographic areas in which we operate is included in Note 14 Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference. Contracts While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts we undertake, our contracts generally fall into three broad categories: cost reimbursable, fixed price, and guaranteed maximum price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts for each of the last five fiscal years: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Cost reimbursable 81 % 86 % 85 % 86 % 88 % Fixed price 16 13 14 12 10 Guaranteed maximum price 3 1 1 2 2 In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts (including those with the U.S. federal government) are subject to termination at the discretion of the client, which is discussed in greater detail in Item 1A Risk Factors. In such situations, our contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination. When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement, and construction of a project or the maintenance of a clients plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment, and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. The following table sets forth the approximate amount of such pass through costs included in revenues for each of the last five fiscal years (in millions of dollars): 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 $ 2,118.5 $ 2,723.3 $ 4,017.0 $ 3,517.4 $ 2,746.7 Cost Reimbursable Contracts Cost reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount as specified in the contract; it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract. In general, we prefer cost reimbursable contracts because we believe the primary reason for awarding a contract to us should be our technical expertise and professional qualifications rather than price. Fixed Price Contracts Fixed price contracts include both lump sum bid contracts and negotiated fixed price contracts. Under lump sum bid contracts, we typically bid against other contractors based on specifications the client furnishes. This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid contracts to lead to an Page 15 Table of Contents adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship based business model. Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract. In contrast, under a negotiated fixed price contract, we are selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client. Negotiated fixed price contracts frequently exist in single responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of the project. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts. Over the past five years, most of our fixed price work has been either negotiated fixed price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for project services, rather than turn key construction. Guaranteed Maximum Price Contracts Guaranteed maximum price contracts are performed in the same manner as cost reimbursable contracts; however, the total actual cost plus the fee cannot exceed the guaranteed price negotiated with the client. If the total actual cost of the contract exceeds the guaranteed maximum price, then we will bear at least some, if not all, of the excess. In those cases where the total actual cost and fee are less than the guaranteed price, we will often share the savings on a predetermined basis with the client. These contracts are not our preferred form of contract because we believe they often contribute to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship based business model. Competition For information regarding the competitive conditions in our business, please refer to Item 1A Risk Factors, below. Employees At September 30, 2011, we had approximately 45,700 full time, staff employees (including contract staff). Additionally, as of September 30, 2011, there were approximately 14,500 persons employed in the field on a project basis. The number of field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular time. Executive Officers of the Registrant The information required by Paragraph (a), and Paragraphs (c) through (g) of Item 401 of Regulation S K (except for information required by Paragraph (e) of that Item to the extent the required information pertains to our executive officers) and Item 405 of Regulation S K is hereby incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year. The following table presents the information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S K. Year Joined the Name Age Position with the Company Registrant Craig L. Martin 61 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 1994 Thomas R. Hammond 60 Executive Vice President, Operations 1975 George A. Kunberger, Jr. 59 Executive Vice President, Global Sales 1979 Gregory J. Landry 63 Executive Vice President, Operations 1984 Joseph G. Mandel 51 Executive Vice President, Operations 2011 John W. Prosser, Jr. 66 Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration and Treasurer 1974 Cora L. Carmody 54 Senior Vice President, Information Technology 2008 William C. Markley, III 65 Senior Vice President and General Counsel 1981 Patricia H. Summers 54 Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources 2004 Nazim G. Thawerbhoy 64 Senior Vice President and Controller 1979 All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with the exception of Mr. Mandel and Ms. Carmody, have served in executive and senior management capacities with the Company for more than five years. Prior to joining Jacobs in 2008, Ms. Carmody served as the Chief Information Officer for SAIC Inc., a large provider of scientific, engineering, systems integration and technical services and solutions, from August 2003 to April 2008. Mr. Mandel joined the Company in February 2011 through the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Mr. Mandel served in various senior management roles with Aker Solutions ASA since first joining them in 1995. Page 16 Table of Contents Available Information You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C., 20549. In order to obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room, a person may call the SEC at 1 800 732 0330. The SEC also maintains a site on the Internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SECs website is http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and download the various reports we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge from our website, http://www.jacobs.com. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected and could affect us in the future. We may also be affected by unknown risks or risks that we currently think are immaterial. If any such events actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Construction and maintenance sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we can be exposed to significant financial losses as well as civil and criminal liabilities. Construction and maintenance sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly regulated materials. On many sites we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures. If we fail to implement such procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, our employees and others may become injured. Unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, and raise our operating costs. Any of the foregoing could result in financial losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our projects can involve the handling of hazardous and other highly regulated materials, which, if improperly handled or disposed of, could subject us to civil and criminal liabilities. We are also subject to regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Although we maintain functional groups whose primary purpose is to ensure we implement effective health, safety, and environmental (HSE) work procedures throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites, the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to liability. Our safety record is critical to our reputation. Many of our clients require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid for contracts and many contracts provide for automatic termination or forfeiture of some or all of our contract fees or profit in the event we fail to meet certain measures. As a result, our failure to maintain adequate safety standards could result in reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Negative conditions in the credit and financial markets could impair our ability to operate our business, implement our acquisition strategy, and access our cash and short term investments; it could also adversely affect our customers businesses. Although we finance much of our operations using cash provided by operations, at times we depend on the availability of credit to grow our business and to help fund business acquisitions. In addition, some of our clients depend of the availability of credit to help finance their capital projects. Due to the continuing instability of the credit markets in the U.S. and abroad, the availability of credit has continued to be relatively difficult or expensive to obtain in spite of government efforts to stabilize the credit markets. This situation could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness (much of which is scheduled to expire in the third quarter of fiscal 2012), enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or obtain funding through the issuance of securities or such additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, these market conditions could negatively impact our clients ability to fund their projects and, therefore, utilize our services, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the risk that the counterparties to our credit agreements may go bankrupt if they suffer catastrophic demand on their liquidity that will prevent them from fulfilling their contractual obligations to us. We also routinely enter into contracts with counterparties including vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors that may be negatively impacted by events in the credit markets. If those counterparties are unable to perform their obligations to us or our clients, we may be required to provide additional services or make alternate arrangements on less favorable terms with other parties to ensure adequate performance and delivery of Page 17 Table of Contents services to our clients. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we typically bill our clients for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our clients delaying or failing to pay our invoices. In weak economic environments, we may experience increased delays and failures due to, among other reasons, a diminution in our clients access to the credit markets. If one or more clients delays in paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, our cash balances and short term investments are maintained in accounts held by major banks and financial institutions located primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. Some of our accounts hold deposits in amounts that exceed available insurance. Although none of the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and investments have gone into bankruptcy or forced receivership, or have been seized by their governments, there is a risk that this may occur in the future. If this were to occur, we would be at risk of not being able to access our cash which may result in a temporary liquidity crisis that could impede our ability to fund operations. Our vulnerability to the cyclical nature of the markets in which our clients operate is exacerbated during economic downturns. We provide technical, professional, construction, and O&M services to clients operating in a number of markets including oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; programs for various national governments, including the U.S. federal government; chemicals and polymers; mining and minerals; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; infrastructure; buildings; and other, general industrial and consumer businesses and markets (such as technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; and food and consumer products). These markets and the resulting demand for our services have been, and we expect will continue to be, cyclical and subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and changes in client spending, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. Current global economic conditions have negatively impacted our clients ability and willingness to fund their projects. They have also caused our clients to reduce their capital expenditures, alter the mix of services purchased, seek more favorable price and other contract terms, and otherwise slow their spending on our services. For example, in the public sector, declines in state tax revenues as well as other economic declines may result in lower state and local government spending. In addition, due to these conditions many of our competitors may be more inclined to take greater or unusual risks or accept terms and conditions in contracts that we might not deem acceptable. These conditions have reduced the demand for our services, which has had a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. Current economic conditions also make it extremely difficult for our clients, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause businesses to continue to slow spending on our services. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery worldwide or in our clients markets. In addition, our business has traditionally lagged recoveries in the general economy and, therefore, may not recover as quickly as the economy at large. A continuation or worsening of current weak economic conditions or a reduction in government spending could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regardless of economic or market conditions, investment decisions by our customers may vary by location or as a result of other factors like the availability of labor or relative construction cost. Because we are dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, we are therefore vulnerable to changes in our clients markets and investment decisions. As a result, our past results have varied considerably and may continue to vary depending upon the demand for future projects in the markets and the locations in which we operate. Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our customers investment decisions and therefore subject us to risks of cancellation, delays in existing work, or changes in the timing and funding of new awards. Commodity prices can affect our customers in a number of ways. For example, for those customers that produce commodity products such as oil, gas, copper, or fertilizers, fluctuations in price can have a direct effect on their profitability and cash flow and, therefore, their willingness to continue to invest or make new capital investments. To the extent our customers defer new investments or cancel or delay existing projects, the demand for our services decreases, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Commodity prices can also strongly affect the costs of projects. Rising commodity prices can negatively impact the potential returns on investments that are planned, as well as those in progress, and result in customers deferring new investments or canceling or delaying existing projects. Cancellations and delays have affected our past results and may continue to do so in significant and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Page 18 Table of Contents Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel, including engineers, architects, designers, craft personnel, and corporate management professionals who have the required experience and expertise. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. In certain geographic areas, for example, we may not be able to satisfy the demand for our services because of our inability to successfully hire and retain qualified personnel. In addition, as some of our key personnel approach retirement age, we need to have appropriate succession plans in place and to successfully implement such plans. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel or effectively implement appropriate succession plans, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The cost of providing our services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. For example, the uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contracts. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur cost resulting from excess staff, reductions in staff, or redundancy of facilities that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions, and results of operations. The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors, and vendors presenting claims to us for, among other things, recovery of costs related to certain projects. Similarly, we occasionally present change orders and other claims to our clients, subcontractors, and vendors. If we fail to document properly the nature of our claims and change orders or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating reasonable settlements with our clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we could incur cost overruns, reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for a project. Additionally, irrespective of how well we document the nature of our claims and change orders, the cost to prosecute and defend claims and change orders can be significant. We are a party to litigation in the normal course of business. Most litigation with which we are involved as a defendant relates to workers compensation, personal injury, environmental, employment/labor, professional liability, and similar matters. We can be exposed to claims and litigation if, for example, there is a failure at any of the projects for which we have provided engineering or other services. Such claims could relate to, among other things, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, property damage, pollution, and environmental damage and be brought by our clients or third parties, such as those who use or reside near our clients projects. We can also be exposed to claims if we agreed that a project will achieve certain performance standards or satisfy certain technical requirements and those standards or requirements are not met. In many of our contracts with clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we agree to retain or assume potential liabilities for damages, penalties, losses, and other exposures relating to projects that could result in claims that greatly exceed the anticipated profits relating to those contracts. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. Our insurance programs have varying coverage limits and maximums. In addition, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under these programs. As a result, we may be subject to future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured. Our insurers are also subject to business risk and, as a result, one or more of them may be unable to fulfill their insurance obligations due to insolvency or otherwise. Pending or future claims against us could result in professional liability, product liability, criminal liability, warranty obligations, and other liabilities which, to the extent we are not insured against a loss or our insurer fails to provide coverage, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance. Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions, and regulations including oversight audits by various government authorities as well as cost controls. Government contracts are also exposed to uncertainties associated with funding. Contracts with the U.S. federal government, for example, are subject to the uncertainties of Congressional funding. Governments are typically under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for government programs may even be eliminated. As a result, our government clients may terminate our contracts for convenience or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice. In addition, the U.S. federal government has announced its intention to scale back outsourcing of services in favor of insourcing jobs to its employees. This practice and its adoption by other government entities could reduce the size and scope of contracts awarded to us. Since government contracts represent a significant percentage of our revenues (for example, those with the U.S. federal government represented approximately Page 19 Table of Contents 24.4% of our total revenue in fiscal 2011), a significant reduction in government funding (e.g., as a result of the efforts of the U.S. Congress Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction) or the loss of such contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, since government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio economic requirements, we must comply with such requirements. For example, for contracts with the U.S. federal government, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act, and DoD security regulations. We must also comply with various other government regulations and requirements as well as various statutes related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping, and accounting. These regulations and requirements affect how we transact business with our clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Government contracts also contain terms that expose us to heightened levels of risk and potential liability than non government contracts. This includes, for example, unlimited indemnification obligations. We also are subject to government audits, investigations, and proceedings, and so called qui tam actions brought by individuals or the government under the U.S. Federal False Claims Act or under similar state and local laws. For example, government agencies routinely review and audit government contractors to determine whether allowable costs are in accordance with applicable regulations. These audits can result in adjustments to the amount of contract costs we believe are reimbursable by the agencies and the amount of our overhead costs allocated to the agencies. If we violate a rule or regulation, fail to comply with a contractual or other requirement or do not satisfy an audit, a variety of penalties can be imposed including monetary damages and criminal and civil penalties. In addition, any or all of our government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed. The occurrence of any of these actions could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We bear the risk of cost overruns in fixed price and guaranteed maximum price contracts. We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if costs increase above our estimates. For fiscal 2011, approximately 19% of our revenues were earned under contracts that were either fixed price or guaranteed maximum price in nature. For these contracts, we bear the risk of paying some, if not all, of any cost overruns. Under fixed price and guaranteed maximum price contracts, contract prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates that are based on a number of assumptions, including those about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, there are errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications, or if circumstances change due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, changes in the costs of raw materials, or our vendors or subcontractors inability to perform, then cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. If the project is significant, or there are one or more issues that impact multiple projects, costs overruns could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by our clients and, therefore, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues or earnings. Additionally, even if fully performed, our backlog may not be a good indicator of our future gross margins. As of the end of fiscal 2011, our backlog totaled approximately $14.3 billion. There is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized as revenues in the amounts reported or, if realized, will result in profits. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. The revenue for certain contracts included in backlog are based on estimates. Projects can remain in backlog for extended periods of time because of the nature of the project and the timing of the particular services required by the project. The risk of contracts in backlog being cancelled or suspended generally increases during periods of wide spread economic slowdowns. Additionally, the way we perform on our individual contracts can affect greatly our gross margins and hence, future profitability. In some markets, there is a continuing trend towards cost reimbursable contracts with incentive fee arrangements. Typically, our incentive fees are based on such things as achievement of target completion dates or target costs, overall safety performance, overall client satisfaction, and other performance criteria. If we fail to meet such targets or achieve the expected performance standards, we may receive a lower, or even zero, incentive fee resulting in lower gross margins. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the contracts in backlog, assuming they produce the revenues currently expected, will generate gross margins at the rates we have realized in the past. Page 20 Table of Contents Our use of joint ventures and partnerships exposes us to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. As is common in the industry, we perform certain contracts as a member of joint ventures, partnerships, and similar arrangements. This situation exposes us to a number of risks, including the risk that our partners may be unable to fulfill their obligations to us or our clients. Our partners may also be unable or unwilling to provide the required levels of financial support to the partnerships. If these circumstances occur, we may be required to pay financial penalties or liquidated damages, provide additional services, or make additional investments to ensure adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. Under agreements with joint and several liabilities, we could be liable for both our obligations and those of our partners. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we participate in joint ventures and similar arrangements in which we are not the controlling partner. In these cases, we have limited control over the actions of the joint venture. In addition, these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. To the extent the controlling partner makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control problems arise within the joint venture, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on third parties to complete many of our contracts. Much of the work performed under our contracts is performed by third party subcontractors we hire. We also rely on third party equipment manufacturers or suppliers to provide much of the equipment and materials used for projects. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired. If we are not able to locate qualified third party subcontractors or the amount we are required to pay for subcontractors or equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially in a lump sum or a fixed price contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a subcontractor, supplier, or manufacturer fails to provide services, supplies or equipment as required under a contract for any reason, we may be required to source these services, equipment or supplies to other third parties on a delayed basis or on less favorable terms, which could impact contract profitability. In the current economic environment, third parties may find it difficult to obtain sufficient financing to help fund their operations. The inability to obtain financing could adversely affect a third partys ability to provide materials, equipment or services which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Maintaining adequate bonding capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win fixed price contracts. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance or payment bonds to our customers. These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. Historically, we have had adequate bonding capacity but, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the suretys sole discretion. In addition, because of an overall lack of worldwide bonding capacity, we may find it difficult to find sureties who will provide required levels of bonding or such bonding may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that our bonding capacity will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new contracts that require such bonding could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we fail to comply with federal, state, local or foreign governmental requirements, our business may be adversely affected. We are subject to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that affect our business. For example, we are subject to a variety of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous or waste materials and the remediation of contamination associated with the releases of hazardous substances and human health and safety. These laws and regulations and the risk of attendant litigation can cause significant delays to a project and add significantly to its cost. Violations of these regulations could subject us and our management to civil and criminal penalties and other liabilities. Various U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations may impose liability for property damage and costs of investigation and cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances on property currently or previously owned by us or arising out of our waste management or environmental remediation activities. These laws may impose responsibility and liability without regard to knowledge of or causation of the presence of contaminants. The liability under these laws is joint and several. We have potential liabilities associated with our past waste management and other activities and with our current and prior ownership of various Page 21 Table of Contents properties. The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of unforeseen clean up obligations at these or other sites could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. When we perform our services, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions. We may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers, and third parties as a result of such exposures. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities arising under environmental or safety laws. A claim, if not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Such laws, regulations and policies are reviewed periodically and any changes could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could, for example, relax or repeal laws and regulations relating to the environment, which could result in a decline in the demand for our environmental services and, in turn, could negatively impact our revenue. Our failure to comply with such laws or regulations, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we and many of our clients operate in highly regulated environments, which may require us or our clients to obtain, and to comply with, federal, state, and local government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with, or the loss or modification of, the conditions of permits or approvals may subject us to penalties or other liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and result of operations. Our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders. Although we have policies and procedures to comply with U.S. and foreign international trade laws, the violation of such laws could subject the Company and its employees to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and therefore, our ability to do business. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits. Misconduct, fraud, non compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws, and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, we routinely provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win contracts and result in reduced revenues and profits and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, there is no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA or other violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The loss of or a significant reduction in business from one or a few customers could have an adverse impact on us. A few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue and or backlog in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. For example, in fiscal 2011, 2010, and fiscal 2009, approximately 24.4%, 25.4%, and 20.3%, respectively, of our revenue was earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government. Although we have long standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce, delay, or cancel their Page 22 Table of Contents contracts at any time. Our loss of or a significant reduction in business from a significant client could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We engage in a highly competitive business. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could lose market share and our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We face intense competition to provide technical, professional, and construction services to clients. The extent of such competition varies by industry, geographic market, and project type. For example, with respect to our construction and operations and maintenance services, clients generally award large projects to large contractors, which may give our larger competitors an advantage when bidding for these projects. Conversely, with respect to our engineering, design, architectural, and consulting services, low barriers of entry can result in competition with smaller, newer competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience a loss of market share or reduced profitability or both, which if significant, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our larger competitors for engineering, construction, and maintenance services for process plants include Bechtel, Fluor, Foster Wheeler, KBR, Technip, WorleyParsons, the Shaw Group, and AMEC. In the area of buildings, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as HDR, HOK, AECOM, and Turner. In the area of infrastructure, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as URS, Parsons Brinckerhoff, HNTB, Tetra Tech, Parsons, and W.S. Atkins. In the area of national government programs, our principal competitors include several of the competitors listed above as well as SAIC, CH2M Hill, Weston, Lockheed Martin, and Computer Sciences Corporation. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in Risk Factors, our international operations are also exposed to additional risks and uncertainties including unfavorable political developments and weak foreign economies. For fiscal 2011, approximately 38% of our revenues was earned from clients outside the U.S. Our business is dependent on the continued success of our international operations, and we expect our international operations to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. At a minimum, our reported financial condition and results of operations are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. In addition, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: Recessions and other economic crises in other regions, such as Europe, or specific foreign economies and the impact on our costs of doing business in those countries; Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including logistical and communication challenges; Unexpected changes in foreign government policies and regulatory requirements; Lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; Renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts; The adoption of new, and the expansion of existing, trade or other restrictions; Embargoes; Acts of war, civil unrest, force majeure, and terrorism; The ability to finance efficiently our foreign operations; Social, political, and economic instability; Expropriation of property; Tax increases; Limitations on the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; and U.S. government policies. To the extent our international operations are affected by unexpected or adverse economic, political and other conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Page 23 Table of Contents Our business strategy relies in part on acquisitions to sustain our growth. Acquisitions of other companies present certain risks and uncertainties. Our business strategy involves growth through, among other things, the acquisition of other companies. Acquiring companies presents a number of risks, including: Difficulties relating to combining previously separate entities into a single, integrated, and efficient business; The effects of diverting managements attention from day to day operations to matters involving the integration of acquired companies; Assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition was negotiated; Failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; Potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations; Potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition; Difficulties relating to assimilating the personnel, services, and systems of an acquired business and to assimilating marketing and other operational capabilities; Increased burdens on our staff and on our administrative, internal control and operating systems, which may hinder our legal and regulatory compliance activities; and Difficulties in applying and integrating our system of internal controls to an acquired business. In addition, there is no assurance that we will continue to locate suitable acquisition targets or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. The current credit markets may make it more difficult and costly to finance acquisitions. Acquisitions may also bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced. In the event we issue stock as consideration for certain acquisitions we may make, we could dilute share ownership. One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities. Accordingly, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S 4 on December 7, 2007. If we issue additional equity securities pursuant to this shelf registration statement or otherwise, such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing shareholders individual ownership percentages in the Company. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock, because of a number of factors, including: Fluctuations in the spending patterns of our government and commercial customers; The number and significance of projects executed during a quarter; Unanticipated changes in contract performance, particularly with contracts that have funding limits; The timing of resolving change orders, requests for equitable adjustments, and other contract adjustments; Delays incurred in connection with a project; Changes in prices of commodities or other supplies; Weather conditions that delay work at project sites; The timing of expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions or other corporate initiatives; Natural disasters or other crises, such as the hurricanes affecting oil producing regions like the Gulf of Mexico; Staff levels and utilization rates; Changes in prices of services offered by our competitors; and General economic and political conditions. Page 24 Table of Contents Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare our financial statements. In preparing our financial statements, our management is required under U.S. GAAP to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: Recognition of contract revenue, costs, profit or losses in applying the principles of percentage of completion accounting; Estimated amounts for expected project losses, warranty costs, contract close out or other costs; Recognition of recoveries under contract change orders or claims; Collectability of billed and unbilled accounts receivable and the need and amount of any allowance for doubtful accounts; The amount of reserves necessary for self insured risks; Accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves; Valuation of assets acquired, and liabilities, goodwill, and intangible assets assumed, in acquisitions; Valuation of stock based compensation; and The determination of liabilities under pension and other post retirement benefit programs. Our actual business and financial results could differ from our estimates of such results, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. An impairment charge of goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to test goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for possible impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach. As of September 30, 2011, we had $1.7 billion of goodwill, representing 28.9% of our total assets of $6.0 billion. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill at the end of the third quarter of our fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in a reporting units market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of our business, potential government actions toward our facilities, and other factors. If the fair value of our reporting units is less than their carrying value, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken. For a further discussion of goodwill impairment testing, please see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. Rising inflation, interest rates, and or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services as well as decrease our profit on our existing contracts, in particular with respect to our fixed price contracts. Rising inflation, interest rates, or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services. In addition, we bear all of the risk of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are fixed price and may be at risk to the effects of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are guaranteed maximum price. Because a significant portion of our revenues are earned from cost reimbursable type contracts (approximately 81% during fiscal 2011), the effects of inflation on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few years have been generally minor. However, if we expand our business into markets and geographic areas where fixed price and lump sum work is more prevalent, inflation may have a larger impact on our results of operations in the future. Therefore, increases in inflation, interest rates or construction costs could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be affected by market or regulatory responses to climate change. Growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional environmental regulations. For example, there is a growing consensus that new and additional regulations may be enacted concerning, among other things, greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased compliance costs for us and our clients. Legislation, international protocols, regulation or other restrictions on emissions could also affect our clients, including those who are involved in the exploration, production or refining of fossil fuels. Such changes could increase the costs of projects for our clients or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, thereby potentially reducing the need for our services, which would in turn have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. However, these changes could also increase the pace projects, such as carbon capture or storage Page 25 Table of Contents projects, that could have a positive impact on our business. We cannot predict when or whether any of these various proposals may be enacted or what their effect will be on us or on our customers. Our effective tax rate may increase or decrease. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates and tax positions are reasonable, they could be materially affected by many factors including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations, and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, the realizability of deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate. We rely heavily on computer, information, and communications technology and related systems in order to properly operate our business. From time to time, we experience occasional system interruptions and delays. In the event we are unable to regularly deploy software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and take other steps to maintain or improve the efficiency and efficacy of our systems, the operation of such systems could be interrupted or result in the loss, corruption, or release of data. In addition, our computer and communication systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic security breaches, or similar events or disruptions. Any of these or other events could cause interruptions, delays, loss of critical and or sensitive data or similar effects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, protection of intellectual property, and results of operations, as well as those of our clients. We are subject to professional standards, duties and statutory obligations on professional reports and opinions we issue, which could subject us to monetary damages. We issue reports and opinions to clients based on our professional engineering expertise as well as our other professional credentials that subject us to professional standards, duties and obligations regulating the performance of our services. For example, we issue opinions and reports to government clients in connection with securities offerings. If a client or another third party alleges that our report or opinion is incorrect or it is improperly relied upon and we are held responsible, we could be subject to significant monetary damages. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover or change of control. We are a Delaware corporation. Certain anti takeover provisions of the Delaware general corporation law impose restrictions on the ability of others to acquire control of us. In addition, certain provisions of our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover. For example: Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three year terms; Only our Board of Directors can fill vacancies on the board; There are various restrictions on the ability of a shareholder to nominate a director for election; and Our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preference shares. These types of provisions, as well as our ability to adopt a shareholder rights agreement in the future, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Accordingly, stockholders may be limited in the ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Page 26 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES Our properties consist primarily of office space within general, commercial office buildings located in major cities primarily in the following countries: United States; Austria; Australia; Belgium; Canada; Chile; China; the Czech Republic; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; India; Italy; Mexico; Morocco; The Netherlands; Poland; Puerto Rico; Peru; Republic of Ireland; Saudi Arabia; Singapore; Spain; Sweden; United Arab Emirates; and the U.K. Such space is used for operations (providing technical, professional, and other home office services), sales, and administration. Most of our properties are leased. In addition, we own facilities located in Charleston, South Carolina which serve as our principal manufacturing and fabrication site for our modular construction activities. The total amount of space used by us for all of our operations is approximately 8.0 million square feet. We also lease smaller, project offices located throughout the U.S., the U.K., and in certain other countries. We also rent a portion of our construction equipment on a short term basis. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information required by this Item 3 is included in Note 11 Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information regarding the Companys executive officers is set forth under the caption Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance in Part III, Item 10, of this Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference. Page 27 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Jacobs common stock is listed on the NYSE and trades under the symbol JEC. We provided to the NYSE, without qualification, the required annual certification of our Chief Executive Officer regarding compliance with the NYSEs corporate governance listing standards. The following table sets forth the low and high sales prices of a share of our common stock during each of the fiscal quarters presented, based on the NYSE consolidated transaction report: Low SalesPrice High SalesPrice Fiscal 2011: First quarter $ 37.39 $ 47.97 Second quarter 44.92 55.73 Third quarter 40.53 51.84 Fourth quarter 31.69 43.96 Fiscal 2010: First quarter $ 33.70 $ 47.90 Second quarter 35.02 46.30 Third quarter 34.91 50.68 Fourth quarter 34.39 40.00 Holders According to the records of our transfer agent, there were 1,394 shareholders of record as of November 15, 2011. Dividends Our policy is to use cash flows from operations to fund future growth, pay down debt, and, subject to market conditions, repurchase common stock under a stock buy back program approved by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, we have not paid a cash dividend since fiscal 1984. Although our Board of Directors periodically reviews and considers the merits of paying cash dividends and buying back shares of our common stock, we currently have no plans to pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock in the foreseeable future. Page 28 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph shows the changes over the past five year period in the value of $100 invested at the end of fiscal 2006 in (1) the common stock of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., (2) the Standard & Poors 500 Index, and (3) the Dow Jones Heavy Construction Group Index. The values of each investment are based on share price appreciation, with reinvestment of all dividends, provided any were paid. The investments are assumed to have occurred at the beginning of the period presented. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones US Heavy Construction Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 100.00 202.27 145.35 122.98 103.57 86.42 S&P 500 100.00 116.44 90.85 84.58 93.17 94.24 Dow Jones US Heavy Construction 100.00 202.05 129.37 122.74 116.03 101.50 Note: The above information was provided by Research Data Group, Inc. The stock performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Page 29 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents selected financial data for each of the last five fiscal years. This selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Amounts are presented in thousands, except for per share information: 2011 2010 (a) 2009 2008 2007 Results of Operations: Revenues $ 10,381,664 $ 9,915,517 $ 11,467,376 $ 11,252,159 $ 8,473,970 Net earnings attributable to Jacobs 331,029 245,974 399,854 420,742 287,130 Financial Position: Current ratio 1.53 to 1 2.23 to 1 2.17 to 1 1.74 to 1 1.78 to 1 Working capital $ 1,099,308 $ 1,527,589 $ 1,522,548 $ 1,173,237 $ 1,001,644 Current assets 3,157,353 2,767,042 2,818,449 2,750,234 2,278,078 Total assets 6,049,428 4,683,917 4,428,614 4,278,238 3,389,421 Long term debt 2,042 509 737 55,675 40,450 Total Jacobs stockholders equity 3,312,988 2,859,048 2,625,913 2,245,147 1,843,662 Return on average equity 10.73 % 8.97 % 16.42 % 20.58 % 17.58 % Backlog: Technical professional services $ 9,100,100 $ 7,588,900 $ 8,209,300 $ 8,085,200 $ 6,188,500 Field services 5,189,700 5,613,100 7,010,100 8,611,400 7,397,300 Total $ 14,289,800 $ 13,202,000 $ 15,219,400 $ 16,696,600 $ 13,585,800 Per Share Information: Basic earnings per share $ 2.63 $ 1.98 $ 3.26 $ 3.47 $ 2.42 Diluted earnings per share 2.60 1.96 3.21 3.38 2.35 Stockholders equity 25.93 22.71 21.14 18.30 15.34 Average Number of Shares ofCommon Stock and CommonStock Equivalents Outstanding(Diluted) 127,235 125,790 124,534 124,357 122,226 Common Shares OutstandingAt Year End 127,785 125,909 124,230 122,701 120,222 (a) Includes non recurring, after tax charges totaling $60.3 million, or $0.48 per basic and diluted share, relating to the SIVOM Judgment (refer to Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below, for a description of these matters and their effects on the Companys fiscal 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as for a reconciliation to the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP). Page 30 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long term engineering and construction type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entitys results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage of completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in schedule; the costs of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. For contracts containing incentive fee arrangements, fees are frequently based on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project. We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. For multiple contracts with a single customer we account for each contract separately. The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims. Certain cost reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly. As is common to the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. Although the joint ventures own and hold the contracts with the clients, the services required by the contracts are typically performed by us and our joint venture partners, or by other subcontractors under subcontracting agreements with the joint ventures. The assets of our joint ventures, therefore, consist almost entirely of cash and receivables (representing amounts due from clients), and the liabilities of our joint ventures consist almost entirely of amounts due to the joint venture partners (for services provided by the partners to the joint ventures under their individual subcontracts) and other subcontractors. In general, at any given time, the equity of our joint ventures represents the undistributed profits earned on contracts the joint ventures hold with clients. Very few of our joint ventures have employees. None of our joint ventures have third party debt or credit facilities. Our joint ventures, therefore, are simply mechanisms used to deliver engineering and construction services to clients. Rarely do they, in and of themselves, present any risk of loss to us or to our partners separate from those that we would carry if we were performing the contract on our own. Under U.S. GAAP, our share of losses associated with the contracts held by the joint ventures, if and when they occur, has always been reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Page 31 Table of Contents On October 2, 2010 the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) new accounting guidance relating to the consolidation of variable interest entities (VIE). This guidance replaces the quantitative based assessment for determining which participant in a VIE has a controlling interest in the VIE with an approach that is now primarily qualitative. The Company has reassessed its VIEs using the new guidance. The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In evaluating our VIEs, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether or not we have a controlling financial interest in the VIE. We are deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a VIE if we have (i) the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance; and (ii) the right to receive benefits, or obligation to absorb losses, that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In making our qualitative analysis, we assess each VIE to determine those activities that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and whether we, another party, or multiple parties have the power to direct such activities. If we determine that we have the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its financial performance and have the right or obligation to receive benefits or absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE then we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE and we consolidate the VIE. If we determine that we do not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE or power is shared by two or more unrelated parties then we are not the primary beneficiary and we do not consolidate the VIE. For the Companys unconsolidated joint ventures, we use either the equity method of accounting or proportional consolidation. The Company does not currently participate in any significant VIEs in which it has a controlling financial interest that it does not consolidate. Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award. We estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Like all option pricing models, the Black Scholes models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including (i) the expected volatility of the market price of the underlying stock, and (ii) the expected term of the award, among others. Accordingly, changes in assumptions and any subsequent adjustments to those assumptions can cause drastically different fair values to be assigned to our stock option awards. For restricted stock units containing service and performance conditions, compensation expense is based on the fair value of such units using a Monte Carlo Simulation. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the use of assumptions and the results of applying Monte Carlo Simulations, the amount of expense recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements may not be representative of the effects on our future consolidated financial statements because equity awards tend to vest over several years and additional equity awards may be made in the future. Accounting for Pension Plans The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2012 range from 2.7% to 7.5%; this compares to a range of 2.2% to 8.0% for fiscal 2011. We believe the range of rates we applied for fiscal 2012 reflects the long term returns expected on the plans assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.1% to 5.1% in fiscal 2010 to a range of 2.6% to 5.9% in fiscal 2011. These assumptions represent the Companys best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled. Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the net pension benefit obligation (PBO) at September 30, 2011 was higher (lower) by 0.5%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $79.0 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $28.3 million for U.S. plans. If the expected return on plan assets was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2012 would be lower (higher) by approximately $7.6 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $2.4 million for U.S. plans. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used. Page 32 Table of Contents Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such insurance reserves in our consolidated results of operations. In addition, as a contractor providing services to the United States federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations. Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as Europe and Non Europe. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2011 Form 10 K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services. Our geography based reporting units reflect the Companys organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and where all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions. U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. We determined that a market approach is an appropriate method for valuing our reporting units in light of its common use as a technique for valuing businesses in general. Using this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Companys overall average market earnings multiple. Since the activities of each reporting unit approximates that of the Company overall, we concluded that the use the Companys market multiple for purposes of applying the market based valuation approach was reasonable. We also consider the market multiples of similar businesses. We believe that the use of this multiple is appropriate considering that both reporting units have qualitative characteristics that are generally consistent with those of the parent company. Those characteristics include size in terms of resources (i.e., personnel); a large, diverse client base; broad geographic reach; and a broad range of design, engineering, and construction and construction management capabilities. The determination of reporting units and the selection of the valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the exercise of judgment by management. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties. As mentioned above, the key inputs used in the valuation model are the after tax earnings of our reporting units and the Companys market driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 were approximately 18, 14, and 15, respectively. In the event either the after tax earnings of the Companys reporting units or the Companys market earnings multiples decline significantly after the date the annual impairment test is performed, the Company will re perform the test at a date closer to fiscal year end. We have determined that the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at either September 30, 2011 or October 1, 2010. Changes in the inputs used in our valuation model (i.e., declines in the Companys average earnings multiple or the after tax earnings of our reporting units) could result in an indication of possible impairment of goodwill in the future. Page 33 Table of Contents Fiscal 2011 Overview The most significant event that affects the comparability of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 is the loss that was recorded last year in connection with the SIVOM Judgment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (the SIVOM Judgment). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Net of the effects of the charge on the Companys long term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share. Because of the unusual nature of the SIVOM Judgment, we include in certain places within this MD&A a discussion of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 as it compares to fiscal 2010, both with and without the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. Although any fiscal 2010 information that excludes the effects of the SIVOM Judgment is non U.S. GAAP, it is presented because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Companys current financial performance and operating trends. The following table reconciles the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP to its fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment (in thousands, except earnings per share): Financial Statement Element Results asPresented(U.S. GAAP) Effects of theSIVOM Judgment Results Before theEffects of theSIVOM Judgment(non U.S. GAAP) Revenue $ 9,915,517 $ (25,894 ) $ 9,941,411 Direct costs of contracts $ (8,582,912 ) $ (58,641 ) $ (8,524,271 ) Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ (932,522 ) $ 6,363 $ (938,885 ) Net interest income (expense) $ (5,083 ) $ (8,725 ) $ 3,642 Earnings (loss) before taxes $ 391,934 $ (86,897 ) $ 478,831 Income tax (expense) benefit $ (145,647 ) $ 26,620 $ (172,267 ) Net earnings (loss) attributable to Jacobs $ 245,974 $ (60,277 ) $ 306,251 Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 1.96 $ (0.48 ) $ 2.44 The Companys net earnings increased $85.1 million, or 34.6%, from $246.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $331.0 million for fiscal 2011. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, the Companys net earnings increased $24.8 million, or 8.1%, from $306.3 million for fiscal 2010 to $331.0 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase in net earnings was an increase in revenues on projects for customers operating in a number of industry groups and markets including mining and minerals (due primarily to the acquisition of the Aker Entities, which is discussed in more detail in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); infrastructure; chemicals and polymers; and oil & gas upstream). Also contributing to the increase in net earnings was good control over our selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Although SG&A expenses increased $108.1 million, or 11.6%, from $932.5 million in fiscal 2010 to $1.04 billion in fiscal 2011, the Aker Entities contributed approximately $113.0 million of this increase. With respect to the Companys consolidated financial condition, bank indebtedness increased $488.2 million during fiscal 2011, from $79.9 million at October 1, 2010 to $568.1 million at September 30, 2011. Substantially all of the increase relates to debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Backlog at September 30. 2011 increased $1.1 billion, or 8.2%, to $14.3 billion. Included in this amount is approximately $1.0 billion related to the Aker Entities. Backlog at September 30, 2011 includes new awards from clients operating in the Oil & Gas Upstream, High Technology, and Infrastructure industries and markets. Page 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations General Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories: Project services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, interiors, planning, and similar services); Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which include a wide variety of services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology, and systems engineering and integration activities); Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct hire construction and construction management services); and Operations and Maintenance services (which include services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance). The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single responsibility, design build contracts, to services required in the post start up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services. The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Technical Professional Services Revenues: Project Services $ 5,070,575 $ 4,224,898 $ 4,644,043 Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 815,561 888,405 894,446 Total Technical Professional Services Revenues 5,886,136 5,113,303 5,538,489 Field Services Revenues: Construction 3,060,820 3,722,101 4,763,640 Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 1,434,708 1,080,113 1,165,247 Total Field Services Revenues 4,495,528 4,802,214 5,928,887 $ 10,381,664 $ 9,915,517 $ 11,467,376 We focus our services on clients operating in select industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 National Government Programs $ 2,313,240 $ 2,314,548 $ 2,148,688 Refining Downstream 2,256,092 2,876,059 3,850,734 Chemicals and Polymers 1,461,125 1,203,373 1,210,027 Infrastructure 1,219,633 938,978 933,519 Buildings 893,528 869,248 793,041 Oil & Gas Upstream 753,471 559,492 895,284 Mining & Minerals 449,194 26,161 136,851 Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 404,687 589,795 875,007 Industrial and Other 630,694 537,863 624,225 $ 10,381,664 $ 9,915,517 $ 11,467,376 We recorded net earnings of $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, net earnings and earnings per share for fiscal 2010 were $306.3 million and $2.44, respectively. Revenues increased $466.1 million, or 4.7%, from $9.9 billion for fiscal 2010 to $10.4 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals markets increased significantly during fiscal 2011 due primarily to the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients for Infrastructure projects increased $280.7 million, or 29.9%, from $939.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $1.2 billion for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were higher Project Services revenues for various transportation projects in the U.S. combined with revenues attributable to the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals & Polymers markets increased $257.8 million, or 21.4%, from $1.2 billion for fiscal 2010 to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients Page 35 Table of Contents operating in the Oil & Gas Upstream markets increased $194.0 million, or 34.7%, from $559.5 million for fiscal 2010 to $753.5 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were several large, EPC projects performed in North America. Direct costs of contracts increased $239.3 million, or 2.8%, from $8.6 billion during fiscal 2010 to $8.8 billion during fiscal 2011. Direct costs of contracts include all costs incurred in connection with and directly for the benefit of client contracts, including depreciation and amortization relating to assets used in connection with providing the services required by client projects. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs decreased $604.8 million, or 22.2%, from $2.7 billion during fiscal 2010 to $2.1 billion for fiscal 2011. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues decreased $306.7 million, or 6.4%, from $4.8 billion during fiscal 2010 to $4.5 billion during fiscal 2011. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 86.6% for fiscal 2010. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 increased by $108.1 million, or 11.6%, to $1.04 billion, compared to $932.5 million for fiscal 2010. The Aker Entities contributed $113.0 million (inclusive of due diligence and integration costs) of SG&A expenses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Excluding the SG&A expenses of the Aker Entities, SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.9 million compared to fiscal 2010. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in home office headcount and the amount of spending required to support our technical professional services activities, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, it is not unusual to see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2011 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit was $518.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $400.1 million ($478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 4.0% in fiscal 2010 (4.8%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment). Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2011, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments remained low in fiscal 2011. Interest expense for fiscal 2011 decreased $1.1 million, as compared to fiscal 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2011 increased $8.8 million as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Interest expense in fiscal 2010 included the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over a number of years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 35.1% for fiscal 2011, compared to 37.2% in fiscal 2010. The tax rate in fiscal 2011 decreased from fiscal 2010 due to a change in the mix of international work and the successful resolution of a U.S. domestic tax issue. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies Page 36 Table of Contents representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 We recorded net earnings of $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share ($306.3 million, or $2.44 per diluted share, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010, compared to net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for fiscal 2009. Revenues for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 totaled $9.9 billion, and represents a decrease of $1.6 billion, or 13.5%, as compared to $11.5 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for clients operating in many of the industry groups and markets we serve were significantly lower as compared to fiscal 2009. The larger decreases occurred in the Refining Downstream; Oil & Gas Upstream; and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industry groups and markets. These declines related to the normal winding down and completion of large projects, combined with the lack of new project awards. These industry groups and markets was also significantly impacted by the global recession, causing many clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. Also contributing to the decline in revenues within these industry groups and markets was a $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, decrease in pass through costs. In contrast, revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $165.9 million, or 7.7%, as compared to fiscal 2009. Most of the increase related to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, other technical services projects. Similarly, revenues during fiscal 2010 related to Buildings projects increased by $76.2 million, or 9.6%, as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase relates to spending for the design of technical buildings. For the fiscal year 2010 we earned $176.8 million in revenues for projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 13.4%, to $8.6 billion, compared to $9.9 billion for fiscal 2009. Pass through costs for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, to $2.7 billion, compared to $4.0 billion for fiscal 2009. Field services revenues for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.1 billion, or 19.0%, to $4.8 billion, compared to $5.9 billion for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 86.6% for fiscal 2010, compared to 86.4% for fiscal 2009. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2010 decreased by $7.8 million, or 0.8%, to $932.5 million, compared to $940.3 million for fiscal 2009. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2010 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2010 decreased by $220.5 million, or 35.5%, to $400.1 million ($142.3 million, or 22.9%, to $478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), compared to $620.6 million for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 4.0% (4.9%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment) for fiscal 2010, compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2009. In addition to the effects of the SIVOM judgment, the decrease in operating profit was due primarily to the overall decline in business volume. Interest income for fiscal 2010 decreased by $8.4 million, to $4.8 million, compared to $13.1 million for fiscal 2009. Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2010, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Interest expense for fiscal 2010 increased $7.0 million as compared to fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2010 decreased $2.9 million as compared to fiscal 2009. This decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over the past several years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully in fiscal 2010 The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 37.2% for fiscal 2010 compared to 36.0% in fiscal 2009. The increase in the tax rate in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009 was primarily related to not receiving a tax benefit on the $25.9 million non cash charge related to the SIVOM Judgment. Page 37 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2011 (in thousands): Payments Due by Fiscal Period 1 Year 2 3 4 5 More than 5 Total or Less Years Years Years Debt obligations $ 568,073 $ 566,031 $ 2,042 $ $ Operating leases (a) 847,107 150,209 232,463 194,553 269,882 Obligations under defined benefit pension plans (b) 419,324 109,319 231,931 78,074 Obligations under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (c) 93,085 7,037 14,930 16,148 54,970 Purchase obligations (d) 979,754 979,754 Total $ 2,907,343 $ 1,812,350 $ 481,366 $ 288,775 $ 324,852 (a) Assumes the Company will make the end of lease term residual value guarantee payment of $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of an office buildings in Houston, Texas. (b) Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2012, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of September 30, 2011. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements. (c) Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2011, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of September 30, 2011. (d) Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of September 30, 2011. Backlog Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 2011 2010 2009 Technical professional services $ 9,100.1 $ 7,588.9 $ 8,209.3 Field services 5,189.7 5,613.1 7,010.1 Total $ 14,289.8 $ 13,202.0 $ 15,219.4 The entire value of contract awards are added to backlog when the contracts are awarded to us. Accordingly, backlog can fluctuate from one reporting period to the next due to the timing of when new contracts are added to backlog and when the contract revenue is recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years). Our backlog at September 30, 2011 increased by $1.1 billion, or 8.2%, to $14.3 billion from $13.2 billion at October 1, 2010. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2011. While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. Page 38 Table of Contents Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $3.6 billion (or 24.9% of total backlog), $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog), and $4.2 billion (or 27.7% of total backlog) at September 30, 2011, October 1, 2010, and October 2, 2009, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts). Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $7.7 billion, or 54.2%, of total backlog at September 30, 2011 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year. Effects of Inflation The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference. Liquidity and Capital Resources At September 30, 2011, our primary sources of liquidity consisted of $905.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, and $89.5 million of available borrowing capacity under our $290.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. We finance as much of our operations and growth as possible through cash generated by our operations. In addition to our revolving credit facility, we entered into several new bilateral credit facilities with major U.S. and European banks in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Approximately $292.8 million was outstanding under these facilities at September 30, 2011. In connection with our purchase of an additional 55% interest in CES, we entered into two bilateral facilities with major banks in the U.S. and Asia. Approximately $66.7 million was outstanding under these facilities at September 30, 2011. And in connection with our fiscal 2009 acquisition of a one third interest in AWE Management Ltd., we entered into a short term credit facility with a major U.K. bank of which $32.6 million was outstanding at September 30, 2011. During fiscal 2011, our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $33.2 million to $905.6 million at September 30, 2011. This compares to a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $94.8 million, to $938.8 million, during the corresponding period last year. During fiscal 2011, we used $801.8 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities. This cash outflow was offset in part by net cash inflows of $236.5 million from operating activities and $556.9 million from financing activities. Our operations provided net cash of $236.5 million during fiscal 2011. This compares to net cash inflows of $221.1 million and $531.7 million during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $15.4 million increase in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due primarily to an $88.9 million increase in net earnings and a $15.3 million increase in deferred income tax expense, offset in part by $28.4 million of changes relating to other deferred liabilities (the effects on cash flows from changes in other deferred liabilities were included in cash flows from financing activities in fiscal 2010 and 2009), a $22.5 million decrease relating to changes in our working capital accounts (discussed below), and the effect of the $25.9 million non cash charge relating to the fiscal 2010 SIVOM Judgment. Because such a high percentage of our revenues are earned on cost plus type contracts, and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Companys working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Accounts receivable consist of billings to our clients a substantial portion of which is for project related costs. Billings in excess of cost consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred. This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique for our industry, and facilitates review of our liquidity at the total working capital level. There was little change in our total working capital accounts during fiscal 2011 when compared to fiscal 2010. However, there were significant changes within the components of our working capital accounts. These changes were due primarily to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts combined with an increase in our receivables relative to the increase in our overall business activity. During fiscal 2011, we experienced an increase in the age of our receivables. This situation was due primarily to a change in our customer and business mix, combined with certain customers implementing internal system and process changes which has contributed to delays in processing our receivables. We believe this situation does not present a significant risk to the Companys cash flows. Page 39 Table of Contents We used $801.8 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2011. This compares to $398.5 million and $93.1 million during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $403.4 million increase in cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due to increased business acquisition activity. During fiscal 2011, we acquired TechTeam, Sula, DSWA, a controlling interest in CES, the Aker Entities, and two other, smaller niche engineering and design firms. Additions to property and equipment used $98.7 million of cash and cash equivalents during fiscal 2011 as compared to $49.1 million used during the fiscal 2010. Included in fiscal 2011 additions to property and equipment is $49.1 million related to the purchase of an office building we use in our operations and the associated equipment and furniture. Our financing activities resulted in net cash inflows of $556.9 million during fiscal 2011. This compares to net cash inflows of $95.6 million during fiscal 2010 and net cash outflows of $39.0 million during fiscal 2009. The $461.3 million net increase in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due primarily to a net, $446.3 million increase in the Companys overall short and long term borrowing activities. Also contributing to the increase in cash flows from financing activities in fiscal 2011 as compared to the previous year is the change in classification of other deferred liabilities. Prior to fiscal 2011, the Company treated the effects on cash flows from changes in its other deferred liabilities as effects from financing activities. During fiscal 2011, the Company concluded that treating such changes as relating to operating activities was preferable. The Company also concluded that this change in presentation was not quantitatively or qualitatively material. We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations, support our acquisition strategy, and service our debt for the next twelve months. Although borrowings under our $290.0 million, unsecured, revolving credit facility classified previously as long term debt became current during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 (the facility expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2012), we nevertheless had $905.6 million in cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2011, compared to $938.8 million at October 1, 2010. In addition, we are actively negotiating a renewal of our credit facilities with several banks and other institutions, and we believe we will successfully complete the negotiations early in fiscal 2012. Our consolidated working capital position at September 30, 2011 was $1.1 billion; a decrease of $428.3 million from October 1, 2010. Additionally, there was $89.5 million of borrowing capacity available at September 30, 2011 under our $290.0 million revolving credit facility. We believe that the remaining capacity, terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, combined with cash on hand and the other committed and uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. New Accounting Pronouncements In September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2011 09 Compensation Retirement Benefits Multiemployer Plans. ASU 2011 09 amends Topic 715 80 of the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) and requires employers to provide additional, separate disclosures for multiemployer pension plans and other multiemployer postretirement benefit plans. The amendments in this ASU require an employer to provide additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. The amended disclosures provide users with more detailed information about an employers involvement in multiemployer pension plans, including: disclosing: (i) the significant multiemployer plans in which an employer participates; (ii) the level of an employers participation in the significant multiemployer plans, including the employers contributions made to the plans and an indication of whether the employers contributions represent more than 5 percent of the total contributions made to the plan by all contributing employers; (iii) information regarding the financial health of the significant multiemployer plans, including an indication of the funded status, whether funding improvement plans are pending or implemented, and whether the plan has imposed surcharges on the contributions to the plan; (iv) the nature of the employer commitments to the plan, including when the collective bargaining agreements that require contributions to the significant plans are set to expire and whether those agreements require minimum contributions to be made to the plans. The current recognition and measurement guidance for an employers participation in a multiemployer plan requires that an employer recognize its required contribution to the plan as pension or other postretirement benefit cost for the period and recognize a liability for any contributions due at the reporting date. That guidance is unchanged by this ASU. ASU 2011 09 is effective for annual periods for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 09, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. Page 40 Table of Contents Also in September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 08 Intangibles Goodwill and Other. ASU 2011 08 amends Topic 350 of the ASC and simplifies how entities test goodwill for possible impairment. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two step goodwill impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. ASU 2011 08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 08, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 05 Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011 05 amends Topic 220 of the ASC and provides that an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. The provisions of ASU 2011 05 will be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 05, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009 13 Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends certain guidance in ASC 605 25. ASU 2009 13 requires entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. The amendments eliminate the residual method of revenue allocation and require revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method. ASU 2009 13 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2009 13, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our primary source for credit is a $290.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The total amount utilized under this facility at September 30, 2011 was $200.5 million ($171.8 million in the form of direct borrowings and $28.7 million utilized in the form of letters of credit). This agreement expires in May 2012, and provides for both fixed rate and variable rate borrowings. Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk are to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we continuously monitor changes in interest rates, and use cash provided from operations to re pay our borrowings as quickly as possible. Furthermore, the Company can generally use a combination of both fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage our exposure to interest rate risk. Foreign Currency Risk In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC 815 10 in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations. Page 41 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below, for a description of these matters and their effects on the Companys fiscal 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as for a reconciliation to the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP). Page 30 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long term engineering and construction type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entitys results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage of completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in schedule; the costs of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. For contracts containing incentive fee arrangements, fees are frequently based on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project. We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. For multiple contracts with a single customer we account for each contract separately. The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims. Certain cost reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly. As is common to the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. Although the joint ventures own and hold the contracts with the clients, the services required by the contracts are typically performed by us and our joint venture partners, or by other subcontractors under subcontracting agreements with the joint ventures. The assets of our joint ventures, therefore, consist almost entirely of cash and receivables (representing amounts due from clients), and the liabilities of our joint ventures consist almost entirely of amounts due to the joint venture partners (for services provided by the partners to the joint ventures under their individual subcontracts) and other subcontractors. In general, at any given time, the equity of our joint ventures represents the undistributed profits earned on contracts the joint ventures hold with clients. Very few of our joint ventures have employees. None of our joint ventures have third party debt or credit facilities. Our joint ventures, therefore, are simply mechanisms used to deliver engineering and construction services to clients. Rarely do they, in and of themselves, present any risk of loss to us or to our partners separate from those that we would carry if we were performing the contract on our own. Under U.S. GAAP, our share of losses associated with the contracts held by the joint ventures, if and when they occur, has always been reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Page 31 Table of Contents On October 2, 2010 the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) new accounting guidance relating to the consolidation of variable interest entities (VIE). This guidance replaces the quantitative based assessment for determining which participant in a VIE has a controlling interest in the VIE with an approach that is now primarily qualitative. The Company has reassessed its VIEs using the new guidance. The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In evaluating our VIEs, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether or not we have a controlling financial interest in the VIE. We are deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a VIE if we have (i) the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance; and (ii) the right to receive benefits, or obligation to absorb losses, that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In making our qualitative analysis, we assess each VIE to determine those activities that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and whether we, another party, or multiple parties have the power to direct such activities. If we determine that we have the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its financial performance and have the right or obligation to receive benefits or absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE then we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE and we consolidate the VIE. If we determine that we do not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE or power is shared by two or more unrelated parties then we are not the primary beneficiary and we do not consolidate the VIE. For the Companys unconsolidated joint ventures, we use either the equity method of accounting or proportional consolidation. The Company does not currently participate in any significant VIEs in which it has a controlling financial interest that it does not consolidate. Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award. We estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Like all option pricing models, the Black Scholes models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including (i) the expected volatility of the market price of the underlying stock, and (ii) the expected term of the award, among others. Accordingly, changes in assumptions and any subsequent adjustments to those assumptions can cause drastically different fair values to be assigned to our stock option awards. For restricted stock units containing service and performance conditions, compensation expense is based on the fair value of such units using a Monte Carlo Simulation. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the use of assumptions and the results of applying Monte Carlo Simulations, the amount of expense recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements may not be representative of the effects on our future consolidated financial statements because equity awards tend to vest over several years and additional equity awards may be made in the future. Accounting for Pension Plans The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2012 range from 2.7% to 7.5%; this compares to a range of 2.2% to 8.0% for fiscal 2011. We believe the range of rates we applied for fiscal 2012 reflects the long term returns expected on the plans assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.1% to 5.1% in fiscal 2010 to a range of 2.6% to 5.9% in fiscal 2011. These assumptions represent the Companys best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled. Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the net pension benefit obligation (PBO) at September 30, 2011 was higher (lower) by 0.5%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $79.0 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $28.3 million for U.S. plans. If the expected return on plan assets was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2012 would be lower (higher) by approximately $7.6 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $2.4 million for U.S. plans. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used. Page 32 Table of Contents Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such insurance reserves in our consolidated results of operations. In addition, as a contractor providing services to the United States federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations. Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as Europe and Non Europe. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2011 Form 10 K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services. Our geography based reporting units reflect the Companys organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and where all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions. U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. We determined that a market approach is an appropriate method for valuing our reporting units in light of its common use as a technique for valuing businesses in general. Using this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Companys overall average market earnings multiple. Since the activities of each reporting unit approximates that of the Company overall, we concluded that the use the Companys market multiple for purposes of applying the market based valuation approach was reasonable. We also consider the market multiples of similar businesses. We believe that the use of this multiple is appropriate considering that both reporting units have qualitative characteristics that are generally consistent with those of the parent company. Those characteristics include size in terms of resources (i.e., personnel); a large, diverse client base; broad geographic reach; and a broad range of design, engineering, and construction and construction management capabilities. The determination of reporting units and the selection of the valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the exercise of judgment by management. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties. As mentioned above, the key inputs used in the valuation model are the after tax earnings of our reporting units and the Companys market driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 were approximately 18, 14, and 15, respectively. In the event either the after tax earnings of the Companys reporting units or the Companys market earnings multiples decline significantly after the date the annual impairment test is performed, the Company will re perform the test at a date closer to fiscal year end. We have determined that the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at either September 30, 2011 or October 1, 2010. Changes in the inputs used in our valuation model (i.e., declines in the Companys average earnings multiple or the after tax earnings of our reporting units) could result in an indication of possible impairment of goodwill in the future. Page 33 Table of Contents Fiscal 2011 Overview The most significant event that affects the comparability of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 is the loss that was recorded last year in connection with the SIVOM Judgment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (the SIVOM Judgment). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Net of the effects of the charge on the Companys long term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share. Because of the unusual nature of the SIVOM Judgment, we include in certain places within this MD&A a discussion of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 as it compares to fiscal 2010, both with and without the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. Although any fiscal 2010 information that excludes the effects of the SIVOM Judgment is non U.S. GAAP, it is presented because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Companys current financial performance and operating trends. The following table reconciles the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP to its fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment (in thousands, except earnings per share): Financial Statement Element Results asPresented(U.S. GAAP) Effects of theSIVOM Judgment Results Before theEffects of theSIVOM Judgment(non U.S. GAAP) Revenue $ 9,915,517 $ (25,894 ) $ 9,941,411 Direct costs of contracts $ (8,582,912 ) $ (58,641 ) $ (8,524,271 ) Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ (932,522 ) $ 6,363 $ (938,885 ) Net interest income (expense) $ (5,083 ) $ (8,725 ) $ 3,642 Earnings (loss) before taxes $ 391,934 $ (86,897 ) $ 478,831 Income tax (expense) benefit $ (145,647 ) $ 26,620 $ (172,267 ) Net earnings (loss) attributable to Jacobs $ 245,974 $ (60,277 ) $ 306,251 Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 1.96 $ (0.48 ) $ 2.44 The Companys net earnings increased $85.1 million, or 34.6%, from $246.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $331.0 million for fiscal 2011. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, the Companys net earnings increased $24.8 million, or 8.1%, from $306.3 million for fiscal 2010 to $331.0 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase in net earnings was an increase in revenues on projects for customers operating in a number of industry groups and markets including mining and minerals (due primarily to the acquisition of the Aker Entities, which is discussed in more detail in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); infrastructure; chemicals and polymers; and oil & gas upstream). Also contributing to the increase in net earnings was good control over our selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Although SG&A expenses increased $108.1 million, or 11.6%, from $932.5 million in fiscal 2010 to $1.04 billion in fiscal 2011, the Aker Entities contributed approximately $113.0 million of this increase. With respect to the Companys consolidated financial condition, bank indebtedness increased $488.2 million during fiscal 2011, from $79.9 million at October 1, 2010 to $568.1 million at September 30, 2011. Substantially all of the increase relates to debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Backlog at September 30. 2011 increased $1.1 billion, or 8.2%, to $14.3 billion. Included in this amount is approximately $1.0 billion related to the Aker Entities. Backlog at September 30, 2011 includes new awards from clients operating in the Oil & Gas Upstream, High Technology, and Infrastructure industries and markets. Page 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations General Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories: Project services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, interiors, planning, and similar services); Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which include a wide variety of services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology, and systems engineering and integration activities); Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct hire construction and construction management services); and Operations and Maintenance services (which include services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance). The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single responsibility, design build contracts, to services required in the post start up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services. The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Technical Professional Services Revenues: Project Services $ 5,070,575 $ 4,224,898 $ 4,644,043 Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 815,561 888,405 894,446 Total Technical Professional Services Revenues 5,886,136 5,113,303 5,538,489 Field Services Revenues: Construction 3,060,820 3,722,101 4,763,640 Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 1,434,708 1,080,113 1,165,247 Total Field Services Revenues 4,495,528 4,802,214 5,928,887 $ 10,381,664 $ 9,915,517 $ 11,467,376 We focus our services on clients operating in select industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 National Government Programs $ 2,313,240 $ 2,314,548 $ 2,148,688 Refining Downstream 2,256,092 2,876,059 3,850,734 Chemicals and Polymers 1,461,125 1,203,373 1,210,027 Infrastructure 1,219,633 938,978 933,519 Buildings 893,528 869,248 793,041 Oil & Gas Upstream 753,471 559,492 895,284 Mining & Minerals 449,194 26,161 136,851 Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 404,687 589,795 875,007 Industrial and Other 630,694 537,863 624,225 $ 10,381,664 $ 9,915,517 $ 11,467,376 We recorded net earnings of $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, net earnings and earnings per share for fiscal 2010 were $306.3 million and $2.44, respectively. Revenues increased $466.1 million, or 4.7%, from $9.9 billion for fiscal 2010 to $10.4 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals markets increased significantly during fiscal 2011 due primarily to the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients for Infrastructure projects increased $280.7 million, or 29.9%, from $939.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $1.2 billion for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were higher Project Services revenues for various transportation projects in the U.S. combined with revenues attributable to the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals & Polymers markets increased $257.8 million, or 21.4%, from $1.2 billion for fiscal 2010 to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients Page 35 Table of Contents operating in the Oil & Gas Upstream markets increased $194.0 million, or 34.7%, from $559.5 million for fiscal 2010 to $753.5 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were several large, EPC projects performed in North America. Direct costs of contracts increased $239.3 million, or 2.8%, from $8.6 billion during fiscal 2010 to $8.8 billion during fiscal 2011. Direct costs of contracts include all costs incurred in connection with and directly for the benefit of client contracts, including depreciation and amortization relating to assets used in connection with providing the services required by client projects. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs decreased $604.8 million, or 22.2%, from $2.7 billion during fiscal 2010 to $2.1 billion for fiscal 2011. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues decreased $306.7 million, or 6.4%, from $4.8 billion during fiscal 2010 to $4.5 billion during fiscal 2011. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 86.6% for fiscal 2010. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 increased by $108.1 million, or 11.6%, to $1.04 billion, compared to $932.5 million for fiscal 2010. The Aker Entities contributed $113.0 million (inclusive of due diligence and integration costs) of SG&A expenses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Excluding the SG&A expenses of the Aker Entities, SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.9 million compared to fiscal 2010. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in home office headcount and the amount of spending required to support our technical professional services activities, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, it is not unusual to see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2011 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit was $518.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $400.1 million ($478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 4.0% in fiscal 2010 (4.8%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment). Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2011, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments remained low in fiscal 2011. Interest expense for fiscal 2011 decreased $1.1 million, as compared to fiscal 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2011 increased $8.8 million as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Interest expense in fiscal 2010 included the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over a number of years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 35.1% for fiscal 2011, compared to 37.2% in fiscal 2010. The tax rate in fiscal 2011 decreased from fiscal 2010 due to a change in the mix of international work and the successful resolution of a U.S. domestic tax issue. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies Page 36 Table of Contents representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 We recorded net earnings of $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share ($306.3 million, or $2.44 per diluted share, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010, compared to net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for fiscal 2009. Revenues for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 totaled $9.9 billion, and represents a decrease of $1.6 billion, or 13.5%, as compared to $11.5 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for clients operating in many of the industry groups and markets we serve were significantly lower as compared to fiscal 2009. The larger decreases occurred in the Refining Downstream; Oil & Gas Upstream; and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industry groups and markets. These declines related to the normal winding down and completion of large projects, combined with the lack of new project awards. These industry groups and markets was also significantly impacted by the global recession, causing many clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. Also contributing to the decline in revenues within these industry groups and markets was a $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, decrease in pass through costs. In contrast, revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $165.9 million, or 7.7%, as compared to fiscal 2009. Most of the increase related to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, other technical services projects. Similarly, revenues during fiscal 2010 related to Buildings projects increased by $76.2 million, or 9.6%, as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase relates to spending for the design of technical buildings. For the fiscal year 2010 we earned $176.8 million in revenues for projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 13.4%, to $8.6 billion, compared to $9.9 billion for fiscal 2009. Pass through costs for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, to $2.7 billion, compared to $4.0 billion for fiscal 2009. Field services revenues for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.1 billion, or 19.0%, to $4.8 billion, compared to $5.9 billion for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 86.6% for fiscal 2010, compared to 86.4% for fiscal 2009. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2010 decreased by $7.8 million, or 0.8%, to $932.5 million, compared to $940.3 million for fiscal 2009. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2010 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2010 decreased by $220.5 million, or 35.5%, to $400.1 million ($142.3 million, or 22.9%, to $478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), compared to $620.6 million for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 4.0% (4.9%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment) for fiscal 2010, compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2009. In addition to the effects of the SIVOM judgment, the decrease in operating profit was due primarily to the overall decline in business volume. Interest income for fiscal 2010 decreased by $8.4 million, to $4.8 million, compared to $13.1 million for fiscal 2009. Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2010, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Interest expense for fiscal 2010 increased $7.0 million as compared to fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2010 decreased $2.9 million as compared to fiscal 2009. This decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over the past several years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully in fiscal 2010 The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 37.2% for fiscal 2010 compared to 36.0% in fiscal 2009. The increase in the tax rate in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009 was primarily related to not receiving a tax benefit on the $25.9 million non cash charge related to the SIVOM Judgment. Page 37 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2011 (in thousands): Payments Due by Fiscal Period 1 Year 2 3 4 5 More than 5 Total or Less Years Years Years Debt obligations $ 568,073 $ 566,031 $ 2,042 $ $ Operating leases (a) 847,107 150,209 232,463 194,553 269,882 Obligations under defined benefit pension plans (b) 419,324 109,319 231,931 78,074 Obligations under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (c) 93,085 7,037 14,930 16,148 54,970 Purchase obligations (d) 979,754 979,754 Total $ 2,907,343 $ 1,812,350 $ 481,366 $ 288,775 $ 324,852 (a) Assumes the Company will make the end of lease term residual value guarantee payment of $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of an office buildings in Houston, Texas. (b) Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2012, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of September 30, 2011. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements. (c) Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2011, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of September 30, 2011. (d) Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of September 30, 2011. Backlog Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 2011 2010 2009 Technical professional services $ 9,100.1 $ 7,588.9 $ 8,209.3 Field services 5,189.7 5,613.1 7,010.1 Total $ 14,289.8 $ 13,202.0 $ 15,219.4 The entire value of contract awards are added to backlog when the contracts are awarded to us. Accordingly, backlog can fluctuate from one reporting period to the next due to the timing of when new contracts are added to backlog and when the contract revenue is recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years). Our backlog at September 30, 2011 increased by $1.1 billion, or 8.2%, to $14.3 billion from $13.2 billion at October 1, 2010. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2011. While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. Page 38 Table of Contents Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $3.6 billion (or 24.9% of total backlog), $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog), and $4.2 billion (or 27.7% of total backlog) at September 30, 2011, October 1, 2010, and October 2, 2009, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts). Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $7.7 billion, or 54.2%, of total backlog at September 30, 2011 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year. Effects of Inflation The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference. Liquidity and Capital Resources At September 30, 2011, our primary sources of liquidity consisted of $905.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, and $89.5 million of available borrowing capacity under our $290.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. We finance as much of our operations and growth as possible through cash generated by our operations. In addition to our revolving credit facility, we entered into several new bilateral credit facilities with major U.S. and European banks in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Approximately $292.8 million was outstanding under these facilities at September 30, 2011. In connection with our purchase of an additional 55% interest in CES, we entered into two bilateral facilities with major banks in the U.S. and Asia. Approximately $66.7 million was outstanding under these facilities at September 30, 2011. And in connection with our fiscal 2009 acquisition of a one third interest in AWE Management Ltd., we entered into a short term credit facility with a major U.K. bank of which $32.6 million was outstanding at September 30, 2011. During fiscal 2011, our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $33.2 million to $905.6 million at September 30, 2011. This compares to a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $94.8 million, to $938.8 million, during the corresponding period last year. During fiscal 2011, we used $801.8 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities. This cash outflow was offset in part by net cash inflows of $236.5 million from operating activities and $556.9 million from financing activities. Our operations provided net cash of $236.5 million during fiscal 2011. This compares to net cash inflows of $221.1 million and $531.7 million during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $15.4 million increase in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due primarily to an $88.9 million increase in net earnings and a $15.3 million increase in deferred income tax expense, offset in part by $28.4 million of changes relating to other deferred liabilities (the effects on cash flows from changes in other deferred liabilities were included in cash flows from financing activities in fiscal 2010 and 2009), a $22.5 million decrease relating to changes in our working capital accounts (discussed below), and the effect of the $25.9 million non cash charge relating to the fiscal 2010 SIVOM Judgment. Because such a high percentage of our revenues are earned on cost plus type contracts, and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Companys working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Accounts receivable consist of billings to our clients a substantial portion of which is for project related costs. Billings in excess of cost consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred. This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique for our industry, and facilitates review of our liquidity at the total working capital level. There was little change in our total working capital accounts during fiscal 2011 when compared to fiscal 2010. However, there were significant changes within the components of our working capital accounts. These changes were due primarily to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts combined with an increase in our receivables relative to the increase in our overall business activity. During fiscal 2011, we experienced an increase in the age of our receivables. This situation was due primarily to a change in our customer and business mix, combined with certain customers implementing internal system and process changes which has contributed to delays in processing our receivables. We believe this situation does not present a significant risk to the Companys cash flows. Page 39 Table of Contents We used $801.8 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2011. This compares to $398.5 million and $93.1 million during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $403.4 million increase in cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due to increased business acquisition activity. During fiscal 2011, we acquired TechTeam, Sula, DSWA, a controlling interest in CES, the Aker Entities, and two other, smaller niche engineering and design firms. Additions to property and equipment used $98.7 million of cash and cash equivalents during fiscal 2011 as compared to $49.1 million used during the fiscal 2010. Included in fiscal 2011 additions to property and equipment is $49.1 million related to the purchase of an office building we use in our operations and the associated equipment and furniture. Our financing activities resulted in net cash inflows of $556.9 million during fiscal 2011. This compares to net cash inflows of $95.6 million during fiscal 2010 and net cash outflows of $39.0 million during fiscal 2009. The $461.3 million net increase in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due primarily to a net, $446.3 million increase in the Companys overall short and long term borrowing activities. Also contributing to the increase in cash flows from financing activities in fiscal 2011 as compared to the previous year is the change in classification of other deferred liabilities. Prior to fiscal 2011, the Company treated the effects on cash flows from changes in its other deferred liabilities as effects from financing activities. During fiscal 2011, the Company concluded that treating such changes as relating to operating activities was preferable. The Company also concluded that this change in presentation was not quantitatively or qualitatively material. We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations, support our acquisition strategy, and service our debt for the next twelve months. Although borrowings under our $290.0 million, unsecured, revolving credit facility classified previously as long term debt became current during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 (the facility expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2012), we nevertheless had $905.6 million in cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2011, compared to $938.8 million at October 1, 2010. In addition, we are actively negotiating a renewal of our credit facilities with several banks and other institutions, and we believe we will successfully complete the negotiations early in fiscal 2012. Our consolidated working capital position at September 30, 2011 was $1.1 billion; a decrease of $428.3 million from October 1, 2010. Additionally, there was $89.5 million of borrowing capacity available at September 30, 2011 under our $290.0 million revolving credit facility. We believe that the remaining capacity, terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, combined with cash on hand and the other committed and uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. New Accounting Pronouncements In September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2011 09 Compensation Retirement Benefits Multiemployer Plans. ASU 2011 09 amends Topic 715 80 of the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) and requires employers to provide additional, separate disclosures for multiemployer pension plans and other multiemployer postretirement benefit plans. The amendments in this ASU require an employer to provide additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. The amended disclosures provide users with more detailed information about an employers involvement in multiemployer pension plans, including: disclosing: (i) the significant multiemployer plans in which an employer participates; (ii) the level of an employers participation in the significant multiemployer plans, including the employers contributions made to the plans and an indication of whether the employers contributions represent more than 5 percent of the total contributions made to the plan by all contributing employers; (iii) information regarding the financial health of the significant multiemployer plans, including an indication of the funded status, whether funding improvement plans are pending or implemented, and whether the plan has imposed surcharges on the contributions to the plan; (iv) the nature of the employer commitments to the plan, including when the collective bargaining agreements that require contributions to the significant plans are set to expire and whether those agreements require minimum contributions to be made to the plans. The current recognition and measurement guidance for an employers participation in a multiemployer plan requires that an employer recognize its required contribution to the plan as pension or other postretirement benefit cost for the period and recognize a liability for any contributions due at the reporting date. That guidance is unchanged by this ASU. ASU 2011 09 is effective for annual periods for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 09, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. Page 40 Table of Contents Also in September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 08 Intangibles Goodwill and Other. ASU 2011 08 amends Topic 350 of the ASC and simplifies how entities test goodwill for possible impairment. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two step goodwill impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. ASU 2011 08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 08, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 05 Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011 05 amends Topic 220 of the ASC and provides that an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. The provisions of ASU 2011 05 will be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 05, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009 13 Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends certain guidance in ASC 605 25. ASU 2009 13 requires entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. The amendments eliminate the residual method of revenue allocation and require revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method. ASU 2009 13 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2009 13, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our primary source for credit is a $290.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The total amount utilized under this facility at September 30, 2011 was $200.5 million ($171.8 million in the form of direct borrowings and $28.7 million utilized in the form of letters of credit). This agreement expires in May 2012, and provides for both fixed rate and variable rate borrowings. Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk are to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we continuously monitor changes in interest rates, and use cash provided from operations to re pay our borrowings as quickly as possible. Furthermore, the Company can generally use a combination of both fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage our exposure to interest rate risk. Foreign Currency Risk In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC 815 10 in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations. Page 41 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long term engineering and construction type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entitys results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage of completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in schedule; the costs of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. For contracts containing incentive fee arrangements, fees are frequently based on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project. We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. For multiple contracts with a single customer we account for each contract separately. The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims. Certain cost reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly. As is common to the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. Although the joint ventures own and hold the contracts with the clients, the services required by the contracts are typically performed by us and our joint venture partners, or by other subcontractors under subcontracting agreements with the joint ventures. The assets of our joint ventures, therefore, consist almost entirely of cash and receivables (representing amounts due from clients), and the liabilities of our joint ventures consist almost entirely of amounts due to the joint venture partners (for services provided by the partners to the joint ventures under their individual subcontracts) and other subcontractors. In general, at any given time, the equity of our joint ventures represents the undistributed profits earned on contracts the joint ventures hold with clients. Very few of our joint ventures have employees. None of our joint ventures have third party debt or credit facilities. Our joint ventures, therefore, are simply mechanisms used to deliver engineering and construction services to clients. Rarely do they, in and of themselves, present any risk of loss to us or to our partners separate from those that we would carry if we were performing the contract on our own. Under U.S. GAAP, our share of losses associated with the contracts held by the joint ventures, if and when they occur, has always been reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Page 31 Table of Contents On October 2, 2010 the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) new accounting guidance relating to the consolidation of variable interest entities (VIE). This guidance replaces the quantitative based assessment for determining which participant in a VIE has a controlling interest in the VIE with an approach that is now primarily qualitative. The Company has reassessed its VIEs using the new guidance. The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In evaluating our VIEs, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether or not we have a controlling financial interest in the VIE. We are deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a VIE if we have (i) the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance; and (ii) the right to receive benefits, or obligation to absorb losses, that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In making our qualitative analysis, we assess each VIE to determine those activities that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and whether we, another party, or multiple parties have the power to direct such activities. If we determine that we have the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its financial performance and have the right or obligation to receive benefits or absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE then we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE and we consolidate the VIE. If we determine that we do not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE or power is shared by two or more unrelated parties then we are not the primary beneficiary and we do not consolidate the VIE. For the Companys unconsolidated joint ventures, we use either the equity method of accounting or proportional consolidation. The Company does not currently participate in any significant VIEs in which it has a controlling financial interest that it does not consolidate. Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award. We estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Like all option pricing models, the Black Scholes models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including (i) the expected volatility of the market price of the underlying stock, and (ii) the expected term of the award, among others. Accordingly, changes in assumptions and any subsequent adjustments to those assumptions can cause drastically different fair values to be assigned to our stock option awards. For restricted stock units containing service and performance conditions, compensation expense is based on the fair value of such units using a Monte Carlo Simulation. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the use of assumptions and the results of applying Monte Carlo Simulations, the amount of expense recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements may not be representative of the effects on our future consolidated financial statements because equity awards tend to vest over several years and additional equity awards may be made in the future. Accounting for Pension Plans The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2012 range from 2.7% to 7.5%; this compares to a range of 2.2% to 8.0% for fiscal 2011. We believe the range of rates we applied for fiscal 2012 reflects the long term returns expected on the plans assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.1% to 5.1% in fiscal 2010 to a range of 2.6% to 5.9% in fiscal 2011. These assumptions represent the Companys best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled. Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the net pension benefit obligation (PBO) at September 30, 2011 was higher (lower) by 0.5%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $79.0 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $28.3 million for U.S. plans. If the expected return on plan assets was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2012 would be lower (higher) by approximately $7.6 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $2.4 million for U.S. plans. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used. Page 32 Table of Contents Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such insurance reserves in our consolidated results of operations. In addition, as a contractor providing services to the United States federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations. Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as Europe and Non Europe. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2011 Form 10 K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services. Our geography based reporting units reflect the Companys organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and where all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions. U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. We determined that a market approach is an appropriate method for valuing our reporting units in light of its common use as a technique for valuing businesses in general. Using this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Companys overall average market earnings multiple. Since the activities of each reporting unit approximates that of the Company overall, we concluded that the use the Companys market multiple for purposes of applying the market based valuation approach was reasonable. We also consider the market multiples of similar businesses. We believe that the use of this multiple is appropriate considering that both reporting units have qualitative characteristics that are generally consistent with those of the parent company. Those characteristics include size in terms of resources (i.e., personnel); a large, diverse client base; broad geographic reach; and a broad range of design, engineering, and construction and construction management capabilities. The determination of reporting units and the selection of the valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the exercise of judgment by management. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties. As mentioned above, the key inputs used in the valuation model are the after tax earnings of our reporting units and the Companys market driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 were approximately 18, 14, and 15, respectively. In the event either the after tax earnings of the Companys reporting units or the Companys market earnings multiples decline significantly after the date the annual impairment test is performed, the Company will re perform the test at a date closer to fiscal year end. We have determined that the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at either September 30, 2011 or October 1, 2010. Changes in the inputs used in our valuation model (i.e., declines in the Companys average earnings multiple or the after tax earnings of our reporting units) could result in an indication of possible impairment of goodwill in the future. Page 33 Table of Contents Fiscal 2011 Overview The most significant event that affects the comparability of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 is the loss that was recorded last year in connection with the SIVOM Judgment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (the SIVOM Judgment). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Net of the effects of the charge on the Companys long term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share. Because of the unusual nature of the SIVOM Judgment, we include in certain places within this MD&A a discussion of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 as it compares to fiscal 2010, both with and without the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. Although any fiscal 2010 information that excludes the effects of the SIVOM Judgment is non U.S. GAAP, it is presented because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Companys current financial performance and operating trends. The following table reconciles the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP to its fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment (in thousands, except earnings per share): Financial Statement Element Results asPresented(U.S. GAAP) Effects of theSIVOM Judgment Results Before theEffects of theSIVOM Judgment(non U.S. GAAP) Revenue $ 9,915,517 $ (25,894 ) $ 9,941,411 Direct costs of contracts $ (8,582,912 ) $ (58,641 ) $ (8,524,271 ) Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ (932,522 ) $ 6,363 $ (938,885 ) Net interest income (expense) $ (5,083 ) $ (8,725 ) $ 3,642 Earnings (loss) before taxes $ 391,934 $ (86,897 ) $ 478,831 Income tax (expense) benefit $ (145,647 ) $ 26,620 $ (172,267 ) Net earnings (loss) attributable to Jacobs $ 245,974 $ (60,277 ) $ 306,251 Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 1.96 $ (0.48 ) $ 2.44 The Companys net earnings increased $85.1 million, or 34.6%, from $246.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $331.0 million for fiscal 2011. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, the Companys net earnings increased $24.8 million, or 8.1%, from $306.3 million for fiscal 2010 to $331.0 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase in net earnings was an increase in revenues on projects for customers operating in a number of industry groups and markets including mining and minerals (due primarily to the acquisition of the Aker Entities, which is discussed in more detail in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); infrastructure; chemicals and polymers; and oil & gas upstream). Also contributing to the increase in net earnings was good control over our selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Although SG&A expenses increased $108.1 million, or 11.6%, from $932.5 million in fiscal 2010 to $1.04 billion in fiscal 2011, the Aker Entities contributed approximately $113.0 million of this increase. With respect to the Companys consolidated financial condition, bank indebtedness increased $488.2 million during fiscal 2011, from $79.9 million at October 1, 2010 to $568.1 million at September 30, 2011. Substantially all of the increase relates to debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Backlog at September 30. 2011 increased $1.1 billion, or 8.2%, to $14.3 billion. Included in this amount is approximately $1.0 billion related to the Aker Entities. Backlog at September 30, 2011 includes new awards from clients operating in the Oil & Gas Upstream, High Technology, and Infrastructure industries and markets. Page 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations General Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories: Project services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, interiors, planning, and similar services); Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which include a wide variety of services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology, and systems engineering and integration activities); Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct hire construction and construction management services); and Operations and Maintenance services (which include services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance). The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single responsibility, design build contracts, to services required in the post start up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services. The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 Technical Professional Services Revenues: Project Services $ 5,070,575 $ 4,224,898 $ 4,644,043 Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 815,561 888,405 894,446 Total Technical Professional Services Revenues 5,886,136 5,113,303 5,538,489 Field Services Revenues: Construction 3,060,820 3,722,101 4,763,640 Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 1,434,708 1,080,113 1,165,247 Total Field Services Revenues 4,495,528 4,802,214 5,928,887 $ 10,381,664 $ 9,915,517 $ 11,467,376 We focus our services on clients operating in select industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2011 2010 2009 National Government Programs $ 2,313,240 $ 2,314,548 $ 2,148,688 Refining Downstream 2,256,092 2,876,059 3,850,734 Chemicals and Polymers 1,461,125 1,203,373 1,210,027 Infrastructure 1,219,633 938,978 933,519 Buildings 893,528 869,248 793,041 Oil & Gas Upstream 753,471 559,492 895,284 Mining & Minerals 449,194 26,161 136,851 Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 404,687 589,795 875,007 Industrial and Other 630,694 537,863 624,225 $ 10,381,664 $ 9,915,517 $ 11,467,376 We recorded net earnings of $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, net earnings and earnings per share for fiscal 2010 were $306.3 million and $2.44, respectively. Revenues increased $466.1 million, or 4.7%, from $9.9 billion for fiscal 2010 to $10.4 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals markets increased significantly during fiscal 2011 due primarily to the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients for Infrastructure projects increased $280.7 million, or 29.9%, from $939.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $1.2 billion for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were higher Project Services revenues for various transportation projects in the U.S. combined with revenues attributable to the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals & Polymers markets increased $257.8 million, or 21.4%, from $1.2 billion for fiscal 2010 to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients Page 35 Table of Contents operating in the Oil & Gas Upstream markets increased $194.0 million, or 34.7%, from $559.5 million for fiscal 2010 to $753.5 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were several large, EPC projects performed in North America. Direct costs of contracts increased $239.3 million, or 2.8%, from $8.6 billion during fiscal 2010 to $8.8 billion during fiscal 2011. Direct costs of contracts include all costs incurred in connection with and directly for the benefit of client contracts, including depreciation and amortization relating to assets used in connection with providing the services required by client projects. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well. Pass through costs decreased $604.8 million, or 22.2%, from $2.7 billion during fiscal 2010 to $2.1 billion for fiscal 2011. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues decreased $306.7 million, or 6.4%, from $4.8 billion during fiscal 2010 to $4.5 billion during fiscal 2011. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 86.6% for fiscal 2010. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 increased by $108.1 million, or 11.6%, to $1.04 billion, compared to $932.5 million for fiscal 2010. The Aker Entities contributed $113.0 million (inclusive of due diligence and integration costs) of SG&A expenses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Excluding the SG&A expenses of the Aker Entities, SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.9 million compared to fiscal 2010. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in home office headcount and the amount of spending required to support our technical professional services activities, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, it is not unusual to see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2011 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit was $518.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $400.1 million ($478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 4.0% in fiscal 2010 (4.8%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment). Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2011, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments remained low in fiscal 2011. Interest expense for fiscal 2011 decreased $1.1 million, as compared to fiscal 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2011 increased $8.8 million as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Interest expense in fiscal 2010 included the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over a number of years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 35.1% for fiscal 2011, compared to 37.2% in fiscal 2010. The tax rate in fiscal 2011 decreased from fiscal 2010 due to a change in the mix of international work and the successful resolution of a U.S. domestic tax issue. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies Page 36 Table of Contents representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 We recorded net earnings of $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share ($306.3 million, or $2.44 per diluted share, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010, compared to net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for fiscal 2009. Revenues for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 totaled $9.9 billion, and represents a decrease of $1.6 billion, or 13.5%, as compared to $11.5 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for clients operating in many of the industry groups and markets we serve were significantly lower as compared to fiscal 2009. The larger decreases occurred in the Refining Downstream; Oil & Gas Upstream; and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industry groups and markets. These declines related to the normal winding down and completion of large projects, combined with the lack of new project awards. These industry groups and markets was also significantly impacted by the global recession, causing many clients to re examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. Also contributing to the decline in revenues within these industry groups and markets was a $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, decrease in pass through costs. In contrast, revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $165.9 million, or 7.7%, as compared to fiscal 2009. Most of the increase related to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, other technical services projects. Similarly, revenues during fiscal 2010 related to Buildings projects increased by $76.2 million, or 9.6%, as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase relates to spending for the design of technical buildings. For the fiscal year 2010 we earned $176.8 million in revenues for projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 13.4%, to $8.6 billion, compared to $9.9 billion for fiscal 2009. Pass through costs for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, to $2.7 billion, compared to $4.0 billion for fiscal 2009. Field services revenues for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.1 billion, or 19.0%, to $4.8 billion, compared to $5.9 billion for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 86.6% for fiscal 2010, compared to 86.4% for fiscal 2009. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2010 decreased by $7.8 million, or 0.8%, to $932.5 million, compared to $940.3 million for fiscal 2009. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2010 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses. Operating profit for fiscal 2010 decreased by $220.5 million, or 35.5%, to $400.1 million ($142.3 million, or 22.9%, to $478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), compared to $620.6 million for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 4.0% (4.9%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment) for fiscal 2010, compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2009. In addition to the effects of the SIVOM judgment, the decrease in operating profit was due primarily to the overall decline in business volume. Interest income for fiscal 2010 decreased by $8.4 million, to $4.8 million, compared to $13.1 million for fiscal 2009. Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2010, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Interest expense for fiscal 2010 increased $7.0 million as compared to fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2010 decreased $2.9 million as compared to fiscal 2009. This decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over the past several years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully in fiscal 2010 The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 37.2% for fiscal 2010 compared to 36.0% in fiscal 2009. The increase in the tax rate in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009 was primarily related to not receiving a tax benefit on the $25.9 million non cash charge related to the SIVOM Judgment. Page 37 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2011 (in thousands): Payments Due by Fiscal Period 1 Year 2 3 4 5 More than 5 Total or Less Years Years Years Debt obligations $ 568,073 $ 566,031 $ 2,042 $ $ Operating leases (a) 847,107 150,209 232,463 194,553 269,882 Obligations under defined benefit pension plans (b) 419,324 109,319 231,931 78,074 Obligations under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (c) 93,085 7,037 14,930 16,148 54,970 Purchase obligations (d) 979,754 979,754 Total $ 2,907,343 $ 1,812,350 $ 481,366 $ 288,775 $ 324,852 (a) Assumes the Company will make the end of lease term residual value guarantee payment of $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of an office buildings in Houston, Texas. (b) Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2012, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of September 30, 2011. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements. (c) Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2011, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of September 30, 2011. (d) Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of September 30, 2011. Backlog Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 2011 2010 2009 Technical professional services $ 9,100.1 $ 7,588.9 $ 8,209.3 Field services 5,189.7 5,613.1 7,010.1 Total $ 14,289.8 $ 13,202.0 $ 15,219.4 The entire value of contract awards are added to backlog when the contracts are awarded to us. Accordingly, backlog can fluctuate from one reporting period to the next due to the timing of when new contracts are added to backlog and when the contract revenue is recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years). Our backlog at September 30, 2011 increased by $1.1 billion, or 8.2%, to $14.3 billion from $13.2 billion at October 1, 2010. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2011. While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. Page 38 Table of Contents Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $3.6 billion (or 24.9% of total backlog), $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog), and $4.2 billion (or 27.7% of total backlog) at September 30, 2011, October 1, 2010, and October 2, 2009, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts). Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $7.7 billion, or 54.2%, of total backlog at September 30, 2011 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year. Effects of Inflation The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference. Liquidity and Capital Resources At September 30, 2011, our primary sources of liquidity consisted of $905.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, and $89.5 million of available borrowing capacity under our $290.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. We finance as much of our operations and growth as possible through cash generated by our operations. In addition to our revolving credit facility, we entered into several new bilateral credit facilities with major U.S. and European banks in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Approximately $292.8 million was outstanding under these facilities at September 30, 2011. In connection with our purchase of an additional 55% interest in CES, we entered into two bilateral facilities with major banks in the U.S. and Asia. Approximately $66.7 million was outstanding under these facilities at September 30, 2011. And in connection with our fiscal 2009 acquisition of a one third interest in AWE Management Ltd., we entered into a short term credit facility with a major U.K. bank of which $32.6 million was outstanding at September 30, 2011. During fiscal 2011, our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $33.2 million to $905.6 million at September 30, 2011. This compares to a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $94.8 million, to $938.8 million, during the corresponding period last year. During fiscal 2011, we used $801.8 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities. This cash outflow was offset in part by net cash inflows of $236.5 million from operating activities and $556.9 million from financing activities. Our operations provided net cash of $236.5 million during fiscal 2011. This compares to net cash inflows of $221.1 million and $531.7 million during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $15.4 million increase in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due primarily to an $88.9 million increase in net earnings and a $15.3 million increase in deferred income tax expense, offset in part by $28.4 million of changes relating to other deferred liabilities (the effects on cash flows from changes in other deferred liabilities were included in cash flows from financing activities in fiscal 2010 and 2009), a $22.5 million decrease relating to changes in our working capital accounts (discussed below), and the effect of the $25.9 million non cash charge relating to the fiscal 2010 SIVOM Judgment. Because such a high percentage of our revenues are earned on cost plus type contracts, and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Companys working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Accounts receivable consist of billings to our clients a substantial portion of which is for project related costs. Billings in excess of cost consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred. This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique for our industry, and facilitates review of our liquidity at the total working capital level. There was little change in our total working capital accounts during fiscal 2011 when compared to fiscal 2010. However, there were significant changes within the components of our working capital accounts. These changes were due primarily to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts combined with an increase in our receivables relative to the increase in our overall business activity. During fiscal 2011, we experienced an increase in the age of our receivables. This situation was due primarily to a change in our customer and business mix, combined with certain customers implementing internal system and process changes which has contributed to delays in processing our receivables. We believe this situation does not present a significant risk to the Companys cash flows. Page 39 Table of Contents We used $801.8 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2011. This compares to $398.5 million and $93.1 million during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $403.4 million increase in cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due to increased business acquisition activity. During fiscal 2011, we acquired TechTeam, Sula, DSWA, a controlling interest in CES, the Aker Entities, and two other, smaller niche engineering and design firms. Additions to property and equipment used $98.7 million of cash and cash equivalents during fiscal 2011 as compared to $49.1 million used during the fiscal 2010. Included in fiscal 2011 additions to property and equipment is $49.1 million related to the purchase of an office building we use in our operations and the associated equipment and furniture. Our financing activities resulted in net cash inflows of $556.9 million during fiscal 2011. This compares to net cash inflows of $95.6 million during fiscal 2010 and net cash outflows of $39.0 million during fiscal 2009. The $461.3 million net increase in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due primarily to a net, $446.3 million increase in the Companys overall short and long term borrowing activities. Also contributing to the increase in cash flows from financing activities in fiscal 2011 as compared to the previous year is the change in classification of other deferred liabilities. Prior to fiscal 2011, the Company treated the effects on cash flows from changes in its other deferred liabilities as effects from financing activities. During fiscal 2011, the Company concluded that treating such changes as relating to operating activities was preferable. The Company also concluded that this change in presentation was not quantitatively or qualitatively material. We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations, support our acquisition strategy, and service our debt for the next twelve months. Although borrowings under our $290.0 million, unsecured, revolving credit facility classified previously as long term debt became current during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 (the facility expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2012), we nevertheless had $905.6 million in cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2011, compared to $938.8 million at October 1, 2010. In addition, we are actively negotiating a renewal of our credit facilities with several banks and other institutions, and we believe we will successfully complete the negotiations early in fiscal 2012. Our consolidated working capital position at September 30, 2011 was $1.1 billion; a decrease of $428.3 million from October 1, 2010. Additionally, there was $89.5 million of borrowing capacity available at September 30, 2011 under our $290.0 million revolving credit facility. We believe that the remaining capacity, terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, combined with cash on hand and the other committed and uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. New Accounting Pronouncements In September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2011 09 Compensation Retirement Benefits Multiemployer Plans. ASU 2011 09 amends Topic 715 80 of the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) and requires employers to provide additional, separate disclosures for multiemployer pension plans and other multiemployer postretirement benefit plans. The amendments in this ASU require an employer to provide additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. The amended disclosures provide users with more detailed information about an employers involvement in multiemployer pension plans, including: disclosing: (i) the significant multiemployer plans in which an employer participates; (ii) the level of an employers participation in the significant multiemployer plans, including the employers contributions made to the plans and an indication of whether the employers contributions represent more than 5 percent of the total contributions made to the plan by all contributing employers; (iii) information regarding the financial health of the significant multiemployer plans, including an indication of the funded status, whether funding improvement plans are pending or implemented, and whether the plan has imposed surcharges on the contributions to the plan; (iv) the nature of the employer commitments to the plan, including when the collective bargaining agreements that require contributions to the significant plans are set to expire and whether those agreements require minimum contributions to be made to the plans. The current recognition and measurement guidance for an employers participation in a multiemployer plan requires that an employer recognize its required contribution to the plan as pension or other postretirement benefit cost for the period and recognize a liability for any contributions due at the reporting date. That guidance is unchanged by this ASU. ASU 2011 09 is effective for annual periods for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 09, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. Page 40 Table of Contents Also in September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 08 Intangibles Goodwill and Other. ASU 2011 08 amends Topic 350 of the ASC and simplifies how entities test goodwill for possible impairment. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two step goodwill impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. ASU 2011 08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 08, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 05 Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011 05 amends Topic 220 of the ASC and provides that an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. The provisions of ASU 2011 05 will be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 05, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009 13 Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends certain guidance in ASC 605 25. ASU 2009 13 requires entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. The amendments eliminate the residual method of revenue allocation and require revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method. ASU 2009 13 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2009 13, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. Interest Rate Risk Our primary source for credit is a $290.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The total amount utilized under this facility at September 30, 2011 was $200.5 million ($171.8 million in the form of direct borrowings and $28.7 million utilized in the form of letters of credit). This agreement expires in May 2012, and provides for both fixed rate and variable rate borrowings. Our objectives in managing our interest rate risk are to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we continuously monitor changes in interest rates, and use cash provided from operations to re pay our borrowings as quickly as possible. Furthermore, the Company can generally use a combination of both fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage our exposure to interest rate risk. Foreign Currency Risk In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC 815 10 in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations. Page 41 Table of Contents 
 
