Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below.Significant CustomersThe following table sets forth the percentage of total revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government for each of the last five fiscal years: 2012 2011 2010 2009 200822.1% 24.4% 25.4% 20.3% 16.8%It is uncommon for a commercial customer to contribute 10% or more of the Companys total revenues. On occasion, however, we will perform a number of field services projects for a single customer in the same fiscal year which, primarily because of the amount of pass through costs (discussed below) that is included in revenue, will cause total revenue from that customer to exceed 10% of total consolidated revenues. For the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009 revenues earned from Motiva Enterprises LLC accounted for 12.2% of total consolidated revenues.Financial Information About Geographic AreasSelected financial information regarding the geographic areas in which we operate is included in Note 14 Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference.ContractsWhile there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts we undertake, our contracts generally fall into two broad categories: cost reimbursable and fixed price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts for each of the last five fiscal years: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008Cost reimbursable 85% 84% 87% 86% 88%Fixed price 15% 16% 13% 14% 12%In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts (including those with the U.S. federal government) are subject to termination at the discretion of the client, which is discussed in greater detail in Item 1A Risk Factors. In such situations, our contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination.When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement, and construction of a project or the maintenance of a clients plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment, and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. The following table sets forth the approximate amount of such pass through costs included in revenues for each of the last five fiscal years (in millions of dollars): 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008$2,328.4 $2,118.5 $2,723.3 $4,017.0 $3,517.4Cost Reimbursable ContractsCost reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount; it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract. In general, we prefer cost reimbursable contracts because we believe the primary reason for awarding a contract to us should be our technical expertise and professional qualifications rather than price.Page15Table of ContentsFixed Price ContractsFixed price contracts include both lump sum bid contracts and negotiated fixed price contracts. Under lump sum bid contracts, we typically bid against other contractors based on specifications the client furnishes. This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid contracts to lead to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship based business model. Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract. In contrast, under a negotiated fixed price contract, we are selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client. Negotiated fixed price contracts frequently exist in single responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of the project. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts. Over the past five years, most of our fixed price work has been either negotiated fixed price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for project services, rather than turn key construction.CompetitionFor information regarding the competitive conditions in our business, please refer to Item 1ARisk Factors, below.EmployeesAt September 28, 2012, we had approximately 48,600 full time, staff employees (including contract staff). Additionally, as of September 28, 2012, there were approximately 14,800 persons employed in the field on a project basis. The number of field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular time.Executive Officers of the RegistrantThe information required by Paragraph (a), and Paragraphs (c) through (g) of Item 401 of Regulation S K (except for information required by Paragraph (e) of that Item to the extent the required information pertains to our executive officers) and Item 405 of Regulation S K is hereby incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year.The following table presents the information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S K. Year Joined theName Age Position with the Company RegistrantCraig L. Martin 62 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 1994Thomas R. Hammond 61 Executive Vice President, Operations 1975George A. Kunberger, Jr. 60 Executive Vice President, Global Sales 1979Gregory J. Landry 64 Executive Vice President, Operations 1984Joseph G. Mandel 52 Executive Vice President, Operations 2011John W. Prosser, Jr. 67 Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration and Treasurer 1974Cora L. Carmody 55 Senior Vice President, Information Technology 2008Nazim G. Thawerbhoy 65 Senior Vice President and Controller 1979All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with the exception of Mr. Mandel and Ms. Carmody, have served in executive and senior management capacities with the Company for more than five years.Prior to joining Jacobs in 2008, Ms. Carmody served as the Chief Information Officer for SAIC Inc., a large provider of scientific, engineering, systems integration and technical services and solutions, from August 2003 to April 2008. Mr. Mandel joined the Company in February 2011 through the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Mr. Mandel served in various senior management roles with Aker Solutions ASA since first joining them in 1995. Page16Table of ContentsAvailable InformationYou may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C., 20549. In order to obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room, a person may call the SEC at 1 800 732 0330. The SEC also maintains a site on the Internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SECs website is http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and download the various reports we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge from our website, http://www.jacobs.com. Page17Table of ContentsItem 1A. RISK FACTORSWe operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected and could affect us in the future. We may also be affected by unknown risks or risks that we currently think are immaterial. If any such events actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Construction and maintenance sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we can be exposed to significant financial losses as well as civil and criminal liabilities.Construction and maintenance sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly regulated materials. On many sites we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures. If we fail to implement such procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, our employees and others may become injured. Unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, and raise our operating costs. Any of the foregoing could result in financial losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, our projects can involve the handling of hazardous and other highly regulated materials, which, if improperly handled or disposed of, could subject us to civil and criminal liabilities. We are also subject to regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Although we maintain functional groups whose primary purpose is to ensure we implement effective health, safety, and environmental (HSE) work procedures throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites, the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to liability.Our safety record is critical to our reputation. Many of our clients require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid for contracts and many contracts provide for automatic termination or forfeiture of some or all of our contract fees or profit in the event we fail to meet certain measures. As a result, our failure to maintain adequate safety standards could result in reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Negative conditions in the credit and financial markets could impair our ability to operate our business, implement our acquisition strategy, or access our cash and short term investments; it could also adversely affect our customers businesses.Although we finance much of our operations using cash provided by operations, at times we depend on the availability of credit to grow our business and to help fund business acquisitions. In addition, some of our clients depend on the availability of credit to help finance their capital projects. Due to the continuing instability of the credit markets in the U.S. and abroad, the availability of credit has continued to be relatively difficult or expensive to obtain in spite of government efforts to stabilize the credit markets. This situation could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or obtain funding through the issuance of securities or such additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, these market conditions could negatively impact our clients ability to fund their projects and, therefore, utilize our services, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, we are subject to the risk that the counterparties to our credit agreements may go bankrupt if they suffer catastrophic demand on their liquidity that will prevent them from fulfilling their contractual obligations to us. We also routinely enter into contracts with counterparties including vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors that may be negatively impacted by events in the credit markets. If those counterparties are unable to perform their obligations to us or our clients, we may be required to provide additional services or make alternate arrangements on less favorable terms with other parties to ensure adequate performance and delivery of services to our clients. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, we typically bill our clients for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our clients delaying or failing to pay our invoices. In weak economic environments, we may experience increased delays and failures due to, among other reasons, a diminution in our clients access to the credit markets. If one or more clients delays in paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.Furthermore, our cash balances and short term investments are maintained in accounts held by major banks and Page18Table of Contentsfinancial institutions located primarily in North America, Europe, South America, Australia and Asia. Some of our accounts hold deposits in amounts that exceed available insurance. Although none of the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and investments have gone into bankruptcy or forced receivership, or have been seized by their governments, there is a risk that this may occur in the future. If this were to occur, we would be at risk of not being able to access our cash which may result in a temporary liquidity crisis that could impede our ability to fund operations.Our vulnerability to the cyclical nature of the markets in which our clients operate is exacerbated during economic downturns.We provide technical, professional, construction, and O&M services to clients operating in a number of markets including oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; programs for various national governments, including the U.S. federal government; chemicals and polymers; mining and minerals; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; infrastructure; buildings; power; and other, general industrial and consumer businesses and markets (such as technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; and food and consumer products). These markets and the resulting demand for our services have been, and we expect will continue to be, cyclical and subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and changes in client spending, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty.Current global economic conditions have negatively impacted many of our clients ability and willingness to fund their projects. They have also caused our clients to reduce their capital expenditures, alter the mix of services purchased, seek more favorable price and other contract terms, and otherwise slow their spending on our services. For example, in the public sector, declines in state tax revenues as well as other economic declines may result in lower state and local government spending. In addition, due to these conditions many of our competitors may be more inclined to take greater or unusual risks or accept terms and conditions in contracts that we might not deem acceptable. These conditions have reduced the demand for our services, which has had a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations.Current economic conditions also make it extremely difficult for our clients, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause businesses to continue to slow spending on our services. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery worldwide or in our clients markets. In addition, our business has traditionally lagged recoveries in the general economy and, therefore, may not recover as quickly as the economy at large. A continuation or worsening of current weak economic conditions or a reduction in government spending could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Regardless of economic or market conditions, investment decisions by our customers may vary by location or as a result of other factors like the availability of labor or relative construction cost. Because we are dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, we are therefore vulnerable to changes in our clients markets and investment decisions. As a result, our past results have varied and may continue to vary depending upon the demand for future projects in the markets and the locations in which we operate.Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our customers investment decisions and therefore subject us to risks of cancellation, delays in existing work, or changes in the timing and funding of new awards.Commodity prices can affect our customers in a number of ways. For example, for those customers that produce commodity products such as oil, gas, copper, or fertilizers, fluctuations in price can have a direct effect on their profitability and cash flow and, therefore, their willingness to continue to invest or make new capital investments. To the extent commidity prices decline and our customers defer new investments or cancel or delay existing projects, the demand for our services decreases, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Commodity prices can also strongly affect the costs of projects. Rising commodity prices can negatively impact the potential returns on investments that are planned, as well as those in progress, and result in customers deferring new investments or canceling or delaying existing projects. Cancellations and delays have affected our past results and may continue to do so in significant and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel.The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel, including engineers, architects, designers, craft personnel, and corporate management professionals who have the required experience and expertise. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. In certain geographic areas, for example, we may not be able to satisfy the demand for our services because of our inability to successfully hire and retain qualified personnel.Page19Table of ContentsIn addition, as some of our key personnel approach retirement age, we need to have appropriate succession plans in place and to successfully implement such plans. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel or effectively implement appropriate succession plans, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.The cost of providing our services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. For example, the uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contracts. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur cost resulting from excess staff, reductions in staff, or redundancy of facilities that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions, and results of operations.The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We are a party to litigation in the normal course of business. Since we engage in engineering and construction activities for large facilities and projects where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to employees or others, we are exposed to substantial claims and litigation if there is a failure at any such project. Such claims could relate to, among other things, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, property damage, pollution, and environmental damage and be brought by our clients or third parties, such as those who use or reside near our clients projects. We can also be exposed to claims if we agreed that a project will achieve certain performance standards or satisfy certain technical requirements and those standards or requirements are not met. In many of our contracts with clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we agree to retain or assume potential liabilities for damages, penalties, losses, and other exposures relating to projects that could result in claims that greatly exceed the anticipated profits relating to those contracts. In addition, while clients and subcontractors may agree to indemnify us against certain liabilities, such third parties may refuse or be unable to pay us.We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. Our insurance programs have varying coverage limits and maximums, and insurance companies may seek to deny claims we might make. In addition, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under these programs. As a result, we may be subject to future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured. Our insurers are also subject to business risk and, as a result, one or more of them may be unable to fulfill their insurance obligations due to insolvency or otherwise. In addition, the nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors, and vendors presenting claims to us for, among other things, recovery of costs related to certain projects. Similarly, we occasionally present change orders and other claims to our clients, subcontractors, and vendors. If we fail to document properly the nature of our claims and change orders or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating reasonable settlements with our clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we could incur cost overruns, reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for a project. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial results. Additionally, irrespective of how well we document the nature of our claims and change orders, the cost to prosecute and defend claims and change orders can be significant. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings can and do occur. Pending or future claims against us could result in professional liability, product liability, criminal liability, warranty obligations, and other liabilities which, to the extent we are not insured against a loss or our insurer fails to provide coverage, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance.Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies, which are a significant source of our revenue and profit, are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions, and regulations including oversight audits by various government authorities as well as cost controls. Government contracts are also exposed to uncertainties associated with funding. Contracts with the U.S. federal government, for example, are subject to the uncertainties of Congressional funding. Governments are typically under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for government programs may even be eliminated. As a result, our government clients may reduce the scope or terminate our contracts for convenience or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice. Since government contracts represent a significant percentage of our revenues Page20Table of Contents(for example, those with the U.S. federal government represented approximately 22.1% of our total revenue in fiscal 2012), a significant reduction in government funding or the loss of such contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If the U.S. federal government is unable to agree on a budget by the end of 2012 and the terms of the Budget Control Act of 2011 go into effect, it may have a material adverse impact on our business with the U.S. federal government and could potentially cause a more general recession in the U.S. Most government contracts are awarded through a rigorous competitive process. The U.S. federal government has increasingly relied upon multiple year contacts with multiple contractors that generally require those contractors to engage in an additional competitive bidding process for each task order issued under a contract. This process may result in us facing significant additional pricing pressure and uncertainty and incurring additional costs. Moreover, we may not be awarded government contracts because of existing policies designed to protect small businesses and under represented minorities. Our inability to win new contracts or be awarded work under existing contracts could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.In addition, government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio economic requirements, which affects how we transact business with our clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. For example, for contracts with the U.S. federal government, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act, and numerous regulations governing security, environmental protection, and employment practices. Government contracts also contain terms that expose us to heightened levels of risk and potential liability than non government contracts. This includes, for example, unlimited indemnification obligations.We also are subject to government audits, investigations, and proceedings. For example, government agencies such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency routinely review and audit us to determine the adequacy of and our compliance with our internal control systems and policies and whether allowable costs are in accordance with applicable regulations. These audits can result in a determination that a rule or regulation has been violated or that adjustments are necessary to the amount of contract costs we believe are reimbursable by the agencies and the amount of our overhead costs allocated to the agencies.If we violate a rule or regulation, fail to comply with a contractual or other requirement or do not satisfy an audit, a variety of penalties can be imposed including monetary damages and criminal and civil penalties. In addition, any or all of our government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed. For example, in so called "qui tam" actions brought by individuals or the government under the U.S. Federal False Claims Act or under similar state and local laws, treble damages can be awarded. The occurrence of any of these actions could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Many of our federal government contracts require us to have security clearances, which can be difficult and time consuming to obtain. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain the necessary securities clearances, our clients could terminate or not renew existing contracts or award us new contracts. To the extent this occurs, our operations and results of operations could be negatively impacted.We bear the risk of cost overruns in fixed price contracts. We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if costs increase above our estimates.For fiscal 2012, approximately 15.0% of our revenues were earned under contracts that were fixed price in nature. For these contracts, we bear the risk of paying some, if not all, of any cost overruns. Fixed price contract amounts are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates that are based on a number of assumptions, including those about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, there are errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications, or if circumstances change due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, changes in the costs of raw materials, or our vendors or subcontractors inability to perform, then cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. If the project is significant, or there are one or more issues that impact multiple projects, costs overruns could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Page21Table of ContentsThe contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by our clients and, therefore, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues or earnings. Additionally, even if fully performed, our backlog may not be a good indicator of our future gross margins.As of the end of fiscal 2012, our backlog totaled approximately $15.9 billion. There is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized as revenues in the amounts reported or, if realized, will result in profits. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. The revenue for certain contracts included in backlog are based on estimates. Projects can remain in backlog for extended periods of time because of the nature of the project and the timing of the particular services required by the project. The risk of contracts in backlog being cancelled or suspended generally increases during periods of wide spread economic slowdowns.Additionally, the way we perform on our individual contracts can affect greatly our gross margins and hence, future profitability. In some markets, there is a continuing trend towards cost reimbursable contracts with incentive fee arrangements. Typically, our incentive fees are based on such things as achievement of target completion dates or target costs, overall safety performance, overall client satisfaction, and other performance criteria. If we fail to meet such targets or achieve the expected performance standards, we may receive a lower, or even zero, incentive fee resulting in lower gross margins. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the contracts in backlog, assuming they produce the revenues currently expected, will generate gross margins at the rates we have realized in the past.Our use of joint ventures and partnerships exposes us to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control.As is common in the industry, we perform certain contracts as a member of joint ventures, partnerships, and similar arrangements. This situation exposes us to a number of risks, including the risk that our partners may be unable to fulfill their obligations to us or our clients. Our partners may also be unable or unwilling to provide the required levels of financial support to the partnerships. If these circumstances occur, we may be required to pay financial penalties or liquidated damages, provide additional services, or make additional investments to ensure adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. Under agreements with joint and several liabilities, we could be liable for both our obligations and those of our partners. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. We participate in joint ventures and similar arrangements in which we are not the controlling partner. In these cases, we have limited control over the actions of the joint venture. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. To the extent the controlling partner makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control problems arise within the joint venture, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.The failure by a joint venture partner to comply with applicable laws, regulations or client requirements could negatively impact our business and, for government clients, could result in fines, penalties, suspension or even debarment being imposed on us, which could have material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on third parties to complete many of our contracts.Much of the work performed under our contracts is performed by third party subcontractors we hire. We also rely on third party equipment manufacturers or suppliers to provide much of the equipment and materials used for projects. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired. If we are not able to locate qualified third party subcontractors or the amount we are required to pay for subcontractors or equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially in a lump sum or a fixed price contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a subcontractor, supplier, or manufacturer fails to provide services, supplies or equipment as required under a contract for any reason, we may be required to source these services, equipment or supplies to other third parties on a delayed basis or on less favorable terms, which could impact contract profitability. In the current economic environment, third parties may find it difficult to obtain sufficient financing to help fund their operations. The inability to obtain financing could adversely affect a third partys ability to provide materials, equipment or services which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a failure by a third party subcontractor, supplier or manufacturer to comply with applicable laws, regulations or client requirements could negatively impact our business and, for government clients, could result in fines, penalties, suspension or even debarment being imposed on us, which could have material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Page22Table of ContentsMaintaining adequate bonding and letter of credit capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win some contracts.In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance or payment bonds to our customers. These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project.Historically, we have had adequate bonding and letter of credit capacity but, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the suretys sole discretion and the issuance of a letter of credit is based on the Companys credit worthiness. Because of an overall lack of worldwide bonding capacity, we may find it difficult to find sureties who will provide required levels of bonding or such bonding may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that our bonding capacity will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new contracts that require such bonding could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.If we fail to comply with federal, state, local or foreign governmental requirements, our business may be adversely affected.We are subject to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that affect our business. For example, we are subject to a variety of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous or waste materials and the remediation of contamination associated with the releases of hazardous substances and human health and safety. These laws and regulations and the risk of attendant litigation can cause significant delays to a project and add significantly to its cost. Violations of these regulations could subject us and our management to civil and criminal penalties and other liabilities.Various U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations may impose liability for property damage and costs of investigation and cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances on property currently or previously owned by us or arising out of our waste management or environmental remediation activities. These laws may impose responsibility and liability without regard to knowledge of or causation of the presence of contaminants. The liability under these laws is joint and several. We have potential liabilities associated with our past waste management and other activities and with our current and prior ownership of various properties. The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of unforeseen clean up obligations at these or other sites could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.When we perform our services, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions. We may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers, and third parties as a result of such exposures. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities arising under environmental or safety laws. A claim, if not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Such laws, regulations and policies are reviewed periodically and any changes could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could, for example, relax or repeal laws and regulations relating to the environment, which could result in a decline in the demand for our environmental services and, in turn, could negatively impact our revenue. Our failure to comply with such laws or regulations, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, we and many of our clients operate in highly regulated environments, which may require us or our clients to obtain, and to comply with, federal, state, and local government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with, or the loss or modification of, the conditions of permits or approvals may subject us to penalties or other liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and result of operations.Our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders. Although we have policies and procedures to comply with U.S. and foreign international trade laws, the violation of such laws could subject the Company and its employees to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and therefore, our ability to do business.Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits.Misconduct, fraud, non compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our Page23Table of Contentsemployees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws, and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, we routinely provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win contracts and result in reduced revenues and profits and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti bribery laws.The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, there is no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA or other violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.The loss of or a significant reduction in business from one or a few customers could have an adverse impact on us.A few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue and or backlog in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. For example, in fiscal 2012, 2011, and fiscal 2010, approximately 22.1%, 24.4%, and 25.4%, respectively, of our revenue was earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government. Although we have long standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce, delay, or cancel their contracts at any time. Our loss of or a significant reduction in business from a significant client could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We engage in a highly competitive business. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could lose market share and our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted.We face intense competition to provide technical, professional, and construction services to clients. The extent of such competition varies by industry, geographic market, and project type. For example, with respect to our construction and operations and maintenance services, clients generally award large projects to large contractors, which may give our larger competitors an advantage when bidding for these projects. Conversely, with respect to our engineering, design, architectural, and consulting services, low barriers of entry can result in competition with smaller, newer competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience a loss of market share or reduced profitability or both, which if significant, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our larger competitors for engineering, construction, and maintenance services for process plants include Bechtel, Fluor, Foster Wheeler, KBR, Technip, WorleyParsons, the Shaw Group, and AMEC. In the area of buildings, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as HDR, HOK, AECOM, and Turner. In the area of infrastructure, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as URS, Parsons Brinckerhoff, HNTB, Tetra Tech, Parsons, and W.S. Atkins. In the area of national government programs, our principal competitors include several of the competitors listed above as well as SAIC, CH2M Hill, Weston, Lockheed Martin, and Computer Sciences Corporation.In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in Risk Factors, our international operations are also exposed to additional risks and uncertainties including unfavorable political developments and weak foreign economies.For fiscal 2012, approximately 38.0% of our revenues was earned from clients outside the U.S. Our business is dependent on the continued success of our international operations, and we expect our international operations to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. At a minimum, our reported financial condition and results of operations Page24Table of Contentsare exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. In addition, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: Recessions and other economic crises in other regions, such as Europe, or specific foreign economies and the impact on our costs of doing business in those countries;Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including logistical and communication challenges;Unexpected changes in foreign government policies and regulatory requirements;Lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights;Renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts;The adoption of new, and the expansion of existing, trade or other restrictions;Embargoes;Acts of war, civil unrest, force majeure, and terrorism;The ability to finance efficiently our foreign operations;Social, political, and economic instability;Expropriation of property;Tax increases;Limitations on the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; andU.S. government policies.The lack of a well developed legal system in some of these countries may make it difficult to enforce our contractual rights. In addition, military action or continued unrest, particularly in the Middle East, could impact the supply or pricing of oil, disrupt our operations in the region and elsewhere. To the extent our international operations are affected by unexpected or adverse economic, political and other conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Foreign exchange risks may affect our ability to realize a profit from certain projects.While we generally attempt to denominate our contracts in the currencies of our expenditures, we do enter into contracts that expose us to currency risk, particularly to the extent contract revenue is denominated in a currency different than the contract costs. We attempt to minimize our exposure from currency risks by obtaining escalation provisions for projects in inflationary economies or entering into derivative (hedging) instruments, when there is currency risk exposure that is not naturally mitigated via our contracts. These actions, however, may not always eliminate currency risk exposure. Based on fluctuations in currency, the U.S. dollar value of our backlog may from time to time increase or decrease significantly. We may also be exposed to limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the financing requirements of our operations in other countries.Our business strategy relies in part on acquisitions to sustain our growth. Acquisitions of other companies present certain risks and uncertainties.Our business strategy involves growth through, among other things, the acquisition of other companies. Acquiring companies presents a number of risks, including:Assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition was negotiated;Valuation methodologies may not accurately capture the value of the acquired business;Failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements;Difficulties relating to combining previously separate entities into a single, integrated, and efficient business;The effects of diverting managements attention from day to day operations to matters involving the integration of acquired companies;Potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations;Potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition;Page25Table of ContentsDifficulties relating to assimilating the personnel, services, and systems of an acquired business and to assimilating marketing and other operational capabilities;Increased burdens on our staff and on our administrative, internal control and operating systems, which may hinder our legal and regulatory compliance activities; andDifficulties in applying and integrating our system of internal controls to an acquired business.While we often obtain indemnification rights from the sellers of acquired businesses, such rights may be difficult to enforce, the losses may exceed any dedicated escrow funds, and the indemnitors may not have ability to financially support the indemnity. In addition, there is no assurance that we will continue to locate suitable acquisition targets or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. The credit markets may make it more difficult and costly to finance acquisitions. Acquisitions may also bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced.In the event we issue stock as consideration for certain acquisitions we may make, we could dilute share ownership.One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities. Accordingly, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S 4 on December 7, 2007. If we issue additional equity securities pursuant to this shelf registration statement or otherwise, such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing shareholders individual ownership percentages in the Company.Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock.Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock, because of a number of factors, including:Fluctuations in the spending patterns of our government and commercial customers;The number and significance of projects executed during a quarter;Unanticipated changes in contract performance, particularly with contracts that have funding limits;The timing of resolving change orders, requests for equitable adjustments, and other contract adjustments;Delays incurred in connection with a project;Changes in prices of commodities or other supplies;Weather conditions that delay work at project sites;The timing of expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions or other corporate initiatives;Natural disasters or other crises, such as the hurricanes affecting oil producing regions like the Gulf of Mexico;Staff levels and utilization rates;Changes in prices of services offered by our competitors; andGeneral economic and political conditions.Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare our financial statements.In preparing our financial statements, our management is required under U.S. GAAP to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include:Recognition of contract revenue, costs, profit or losses in applying the principles of percentage of completion accounting;Estimated amounts for expected project losses, warranty costs, contract close out or other costs;Recognition of recoveries under contract change orders or claims;Collectability of billed and unbilled accounts receivable and the need and amount of any allowance for doubtful accounts;Page26Table of ContentsThe amount of reserves necessary for self insured risks;Accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves;Valuation of assets acquired, and liabilities, goodwill, and intangible assets assumed, in acquisitions;Valuation of stock based compensation; andThe determination of liabilities under pension and other post retirement benefit programs.Our actual business and financial results could differ from our estimates of such results, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.An impairment charge of goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to test goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for possible impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach. As of September 28, 2012, we had $2.0 billion of goodwill, representing 29.4% of our total assets of $6.8 billion. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill at the end of the third quarter of our fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in a reporting units market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of our business, potential government actions toward our facilities, and other factors.If the fair value of our reporting units is less than their carrying value, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken. For a further discussion of goodwill impairment testing, please see Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below.We may be required to contribute additional cash to meet any underfunded benefit obligations associated with retirement and post retirement benefit plans we manage.We have various employee benefit plan obligations that require us to make contributions to satisfy, over time, our underfunded benefit obligations, which are generally determined by calculating the projected benefit obligations minus the fair value of plan assets. For example, as of September 28, 2012 and September 30, 2011, our defined benefit pension and post retirement benefit plans were projected to be underfunded by $463.7 million and $421.0 million, respectively. See Note 7Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional disclosure. In the future, our benefit plan obligations may increase or decrease depending on changes in the levels of interest rates, pension plan asset performance and other factors. If we are required to contribute a significant amount of the deficit for underfunded benefit plans, our cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Rising inflation, interest rates, and or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services as well as decrease our profit on our existing contracts, in particular with respect to our fixed price contracts.Rising inflation, interest rates, or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services. In addition, we bear all of the risk of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are fixed price. Because a significant portion of our revenues are earned from cost reimbursable type contracts (approximately 85.0% during fiscal 2012), the effects of inflation on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few years have been generally minor. However, if we expand our business into markets and geographic areas where fixed price and lump sum work is more prevalent, inflation may have a larger impact on our results of operations in the future. Therefore, increases in inflation, interest rates or construction costs could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We may be affected by market or regulatory responses to climate change.Growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional environmental regulations. For example, there is a growing consensus that new and additional regulations may be enacted concerning, among other things, greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased compliance costs for us and our clients. Legislation, international protocols, regulation or other restrictions on emissions could also affect our clients, including those who are involved in the exploration, production or refining of fossil fuels. Such changes could increase the costs of projects for our clients or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, thereby potentially reducing the need for our services, which would in turn have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. However, these changes could also Page27Table of Contentsincrease the pace of projects, such as carbon capture or storage projects, that could have a positive impact on our business. We cannot predict when or whether any of these various proposals may be enacted or what their effect will be on us or on our customers.Our effective tax rate may increase or decrease.We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates and tax positions are reasonable, they could be materially affected by many factors including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations, and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, the realizability of deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate.We rely heavily on computer, information, and communications technology and related systems in order to properly operate our business. From time to time, we experience occasional system interruptions and delays. In the event we are unable to regularly deploy software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and take other steps to maintain or improve the efficiency and efficacy of our systems, the operation of such systems could be interrupted or result in the loss, corruption, or release of data. In addition, our computer and communication systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic security breaches, intentional or inadvertent user misuse or error, or similar events or disruptions. Any of these or other events could cause interruptions, delays, loss of critical and or sensitive data or similar effects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, protection of intellectual property, and results of operations, as well as those of our clients.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or that of our clients.Our technology and intellectual property provide us, in many instances, with a competitive advantage. Although we protect our property through patent registrations, license restrictions, and similar mechanisms, we may not be able to successfully preserve our rights and they could be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or become obsolete. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which we operate do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the U.S. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. In addition, our clients or other third parties may also provide us with their technology and intellectual property. There is a risk we may not sufficiently protect our or their information from improper use or dissemination and, as a result, could be subject to claims and litigation and resulting liabilities, loss of contracts or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We are subject to professional standards, duties and statutory obligations on professional reports and opinions we issue, which could subject us to monetary damages.We issue reports and opinions to clients based on our professional engineering expertise as well as our other professional credentials that subject us to professional standards, duties and obligations regulating the performance of our services. For example, we issue opinions and reports to government clients in connection with securities offerings. If a client or another third party alleges that our report or opinion is incorrect or it is improperly relied upon and we are held responsible, we could be subject to significant monetary damages.Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover or change of control.We are a Delaware corporation. Certain anti takeover provisions of the Delaware general corporation law impose restrictions on the ability of others to acquire control of us. In addition, certain provisions of our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover. For example:Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three year terms;Only our Board of Directors can fill vacancies on the board;There are various restrictions on the ability of a shareholder to nominate a director for election; andOur Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preference shares.Page28Table of ContentsThese types of provisions, as well as our ability to adopt a shareholder rights agreement in the future, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Accordingly, stockholders may be limited in the ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.Item 2.PROPERTIESOur properties consist primarily of office space within general, commercial office buildings located in major cities primarily in the following countries: United States; Australia; Austria; Belgium; Canada; Chile; China; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; India; Italy; Mexico; Morocco; The Netherlands; Poland; Puerto Rico; Peru; Republic of Ireland; Saudi Arabia; Singapore; Spain; Sweden; United Arab Emirates; and the United Kingdom. Such space is used for operations (providing technical, professional, and other home office services), sales, and administration. Most of our properties are leased. In addition, we own facilities located in Charleston, South Carolina which serve as our principal manufacturing and fabrication site for our modular construction activities. We also have fabrication facilities located in Canada in Pickering, Ontario and Edmonton and Lamont, Alberta. The total amount of space used by us for all of our operations is approximately 7.6 million square feet.We also lease smaller, project offices located throughout the U.S., the U.K., and in certain other countries. We also rent most of our construction equipment on a short term basis.Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSThe information required by this Item 3 is included in Note 11 Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and is incorporated herein by reference.PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIESMarket InformationJacobs common stock is listed on the NYSE and trades under the symbol JEC. We provided to the NYSE, without qualification, the required annual certification of our Chief Executive Officer regarding compliance with the NYSEs corporate governance listing standards. The following table sets forth the low and high sales prices of a share of our common stock during each of the fiscal quarters presented, based on the NYSE Composite Price History: Low SalesPrice High SalesPriceFiscal 2012: First quarter $30.74 $43.10Second quarter 40.53 48.17Third quarter 33.61 45.00Fourth quarter 36.07 43.90Fiscal 2011: First quarter $37.39 $47.97Second quarter 44.92 55.73Third quarter 40.53 51.84Fourth quarter 31.69 43.96ShareholdersAccording to the records of our transfer agent, there were 1,330 shareholders of record as of November 15, 2012.Page29Table of ContentsDividendsOur policy is to use cash flows from operations to fund future growth, pay down debt, and, subject to market conditions, repurchase common stock under a stock buy back program approved by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, we have not paid a cash dividend since fiscal 1984. Although our Board of Directors periodically reviews and considers the merits of paying cash dividends and buying back shares of our common stock, we currently have no plans to pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock in the foreseeable future.Performance GraphThe following graph and table shows the changes over the past five year period in the value of $100 invested at the end of fiscal 2007 in (1) the common stock of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., (2) the Standard & Poors 500 Index, and (3) the Dow Jones Heavy Construction Group Index. The values of each investment are based on share price appreciation, with reinvestment of all dividends, provided any were paid. The investments are assumed to have occurred at the beginning of the period presented. The stock performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. 100.00 71.86 60.80 51.20 42.72 53.49S&P 500 100.00 78.02 72.63 80.01 80.93 105.37Dow Jones US Heavy Construction 100.00 64.03 60.74 57.43 50.23 66.25Note: The above information was provided by Research Data Group, Inc.Page30Table of ContentsItem 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATAThe following table presents selected financial data for each of the last five fiscal years. This selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Amounts are presented in thousands, except for per share information and ratios: 2012 (a) 2011 2010 (b) 2009 2008Results of Operations: Revenues $10,893,778 $10,381,664 $9,915,517 $11,467,376 $11,252,159Net earnings attributable to Jacobs 378,954 331,029 245,974 399,854 420,742Financial Position: Current ratio 2.07 to 1 1.53 to 1 2.23 to 1 2.17 to 1 1.74 to 1Working capital $1,865,025 $1,099,308 $1,527,589 $1,522,548 $1,173,237Current assets 3,612,077 3,157,353 2,767,042 2,818,449 2,750,234Total assets 6,839,433 6,049,428 4,683,917 4,428,614 4,278,238Cash 1,032,457 905,633 938,842 1,033,619 604,420Long term debt 528,260 2,042 509 737 55,675Total Jacobs stockholders equity 3,722,473 3,312,988 2,859,048 2,625,913 2,245,147Return on average equity 10.77% 10.73% 8.97% 16.42% 20.58%Backlog: Technical professional services $10,266,500 $9,100,100 $7,588,900 $8,209,300 $8,085,200Field services 5,643,200 5,189,700 5,613,100 7,010,100 8,611,400Total $15,909,700 $14,289,800 $13,202,000 $15,219,400 $16,696,600Per Share Information: Basic earnings per share $2.97 $2.63 $1.98 $3.26 $3.47Diluted earnings per share 2.94 2.60 1.96 3.21 3.38Stockholders equity 28.65 25.93 22.71 21.14 18.30Average Number of Shares of Common Stock and Common Stock Equivalents Outstanding (Diluted) 128,692 127,235 125,790 124,534 124,357Common Shares Outstanding at Year End 129,936 127,785 125,909 124,230 122,701 (a)Includes a one time, after tax gain of $4.0 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, related to the sale of the Companys intellectual property for iron ore pelletizing and certain other related assets.(b)Includes non recurring, after tax charges totaling $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, relating to the SIVOM Judgment (refer to Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below, for a description of this matter and its effects on the Companys fiscal 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as for a reconciliation to the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP).Page31Table of ContentsItem 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSCritical Accounting PoliciesIn order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements.The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long term engineering and construction type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entitys results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint VenturesIn general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage of completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress as of the balance sheet dates. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate the possible effects of variances in schedule; the costs of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. For contracts containing incentive fee arrangements, fees are frequently based on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project.We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. For multiple contracts with a single customer we account for each contract separately.The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims.Certain cost reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly.As is common to the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. Although the joint ventures own and hold the contracts with the clients, the services required by the contracts are typically performed by us and our joint venture partners, or by other subcontractors under subcontracting agreements with the joint ventures. The assets of our joint ventures, therefore, consist almost entirely of cash and receivables (representing amounts due from clients), and the liabilities of our joint ventures consist almost entirely of amounts due to the joint venture partners (for services provided by the partners to the joint ventures under their individual subcontracts) and other subcontractors. In general, at any given time, the equity of our joint ventures represents the undistributed profits earned on contracts the joint ventures hold with clients. Very few of our joint ventures have employees. None of our joint ventures have third party debt or credit facilities. Our joint ventures, therefore, are simply mechanisms used to deliver engineering and construction services to clients. Rarely do they, in and of themselves, present any risk of loss to us or to our partners separate Page32Table of Contentsfrom those that we would carry if we were performing the contract on our own. Under U.S. GAAP, our share of losses associated with the contracts held by the joint ventures, if and when they occur, has always been reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements.In evaluating the Companys joint ventures (also referred to as "variable interest entities", or "VIEs") for accounting and consolidation purposes, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether or not the Company has a controlling financial interest in the VIE. The Company is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a VIE if it has (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance; and (ii) the right to receive benefits, or obligation to absorb losses, that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In making our qualitative analysis, the Company assesses each VIE to determine those activities that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and whether the Company, another entity, or multiple entities have the power to direct those activities. If we determine that we have the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its financial performance and have the right or obligation to receive benefits or absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE, then we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE and we consolidate the VIE. If we determine that we do not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE or power is shared by two or more unrelated parties, then we are not the primary beneficiary and we do not consolidate the VIE.For the Companys unconsolidated joint ventures, we use the equity method of accounting. The Company does not currently participate in any significant VIEs in which it has a controlling financial interest. There were no changes in facts and circumstances in the period that caused the Company to reassess the method of accounting for its VIEs.Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award. We estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Like all option pricing models, the Black Scholes models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including (i) the expected volatility of the market price of the underlying stock, and (ii) the expected term of the award, among others. Accordingly, changes in assumptions and any subsequent adjustments to those assumptions can cause drastically different fair values to be assigned to our stock option awards. For restricted stock units containing service and performance conditions with measures external to the Company, compensation expense is based on the fair value of such units determined using Monte Carlo Simulations. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the use of assumptions and the results of applying Monte Carlo Simulations, the amount of expense recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements may not be representative of the effects on our future consolidated financial statements because equity awards tend to vest over several years and additional equity awards may be made in the future.Accounting for Pension Plans The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K.The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2013 range from 2.4% to 8.5%; this compares to a range of 2.7% to 7.5% for fiscal 2012. We believe the range of rates selected for fiscal 2013 reflects the long term returns expected on the plans assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.6% to 5.9% in fiscal 2011 to a range of 0.6% to 8.4% in fiscal 2012. These assumptions represent the Companys best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled.Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the net pension benefit obligation (PBO) at September 28, 2012 was higher (lower) by 0.5%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $100.8 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $24.4 million for U.S. plans. If the expected return on plan assets was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2013 would be lower (higher) by approximately $8.9 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $3.5 million for U.S. plans. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used. Page33Table of ContentsContractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts.In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such liabilities in our consolidated results of operations.In addition, as a contractor providing services to the U.S. federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations.Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as Europe and Non Europe. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2012 Form 10 K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services.Our geography based reporting units reflect the Companys organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and where all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions.U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. The valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates and future market conditions, among others.For fiscal years 2011 and 2010 , we used a market approach for valuing our reporting units. Under this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Companys overall average market earnings multiple.The key inputs used in the valuation model were the after tax earnings of our reporting units and the Companys market driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2011 and 2010 were approximately 18 and 14, respectively. For fiscal year 2012, we used both an income approach and a market approach to test our goodwill for possible impairment. Such approaches require us to make estimates and judgments. Under the income approach, fair vale is determined by using the discounted cash flows of our reporting units. Under the market approach, the fair value of our reporting units is determined by reference to guideline companies that are reasonably comparable to our reporting units; the fair values are estimated based on the valuation multiples of the invested capital associated with the guideline companies. In assessing whether there is an indication that the carrying value of goodwill has been impaired, we utilize the results of both valuation techniques and consider the range of fair values indicated. The fair values for each reporting unit exceeded the respective book values by over 30%. The key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units in our testing were: Income ApproachCompany financial projections for fiscal years 2012 to 2015Weighted average cost of capital of 12%Residual period growth rate of 3%Page34Table of ContentsMarket ApproachWith respect to the market approach, the Company used multiples ranging from 6.2 to 8.0 of EBITDA (generally, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization), and from 7.3 to 9.6 for EBIT (generally, earnings before interest and taxes) for guideline publicly traded companies reasonably comparable to the Companys reporting units applied to the trailing twelve months results of operations for each of our reporting units.It is possible that changes in market conditions, economy, facts and circumstances, judgments, and assumptions used in estimating the fair value could change, resulting in possible impairment of goodwill in the future. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties.The Company performs the annual goodwill impairment test for the reporting units in the third quarter of our fiscal year. The Company will test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We have determined that the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010.Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at either September 28, 2012 or September 30, 2011. Fiscal 2012 OverviewThe Companys net earnings increased $47.9 million, or 14.5%, from $331.0 million for fiscal 2011 to $379.0 million for fiscal 2012. Included in net earnings for fiscal 2012 is a one time, after tax gain of $4.0 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, related to the sale of the Companys intellectual property for iron ore pelletizing and other related assets ("pelletizing gain"). The sale was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Excluding the pelletizing gain, the Companys net earnings for fiscal 2012 grew 13.3% from the prior year. Although any fiscal 2012 information that excludes the pelletizing gain is non U.S. GAAP, we use such information in this MD&A because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Companys current financial performance and operating trends.In spite of the difficult economic environment that continued to plague many of the end markets that we serve, the Company was able to grow net earnings by 13.3% and revenues by 4.9% from the prior year. This growth was facilitated by increased activity across several of the major markets in which our clients operate, including the hydrocarbons business (refining and upstream oil and gas), chemicals and polymers, mining and minerals, and pharmaceuticals and biotechnology. This growth occurred principally within the technical, professional services areas of our business. Backlog at September 28, 2012 increased $1.62 billion, or 11.3%, to $15.91 billion. Backlog at September 28, 2012 includes new awards from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers, Oil & Gas Upstream, and Mining and Minerals industries and markets. Page35Table of ContentsResults of OperationsGeneralOur business focuses exclusively on providing technical professional services and field services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories:Project services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, interiors, planning, and similar services);Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which include a wide variety of services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology, and systems engineering and integration activities);Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct hire construction and construction management services); andOperations and Maintenance services (which include services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance).The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single responsibility, design build contracts, to services required in the post start up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services.The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2012 2011 2010Technical Professional Services revenues: Project Services $5,693,419 $5,070,575 $4,224,898Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 772,031 815,561 888,405Total Technical Professional Services revenues 6,465,450 5,886,136 5,113,303Field Services revenues: Construction 3,145,311 3,060,820 3,722,101Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 1,283,017 1,434,708 1,080,113Total Field Services revenues 4,428,328 4,495,528 4,802,214 $10,893,778 $10,381,664 $9,915,517Page36Table of ContentsWe focus our services on clients operating in select industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2012 2011 2010Refining Downstream $2,379,750 $2,256,092 $2,876,059National Government Programs 2,272,611 2,313,240 2,314,548Chemicals and Polymers 1,704,723 1,461,125 1,203,373Infrastructure 1,085,649 1,219,633 938,978Buildings 843,938 893,528 869,248Oil & Gas Upstream 790,546 753,471 559,492Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 576,303 404,687 589,795Mining & Minerals 550,134 449,194 26,161Industrial and Other 690,124 630,694 537,863 $10,893,778 $10,381,664 $9,915,517We recorded net earnings of $379 million, or $2.94 per diluted share ($375 million, or $2.91 per diluted share excluding the pelletizing gain), for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, compared to $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.Revenues increased $512.1 million, or 4.9%, from $10.38 billion for fiscal 2011 to $10.89 billion for fiscal 2012.Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries increased $243.6 million, or 16.7%, from $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011 to $1.7 billion for fiscal 2012. The effect of shale gas projects and the low price of natural gas had an impact on the chemicals market in fiscal 2012. Because there is now a large source of feedstock available outside refineries which can grow independently of the refining infrastructure, we believe more projects are now economically viable and capital is being deployed to develop these opportunities. Furthermore, our clients are looking at various options to monetize natural gas.Revenues from clients operating in the Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology markets increased $171.6 million, or 42.4%, from $404.7 million for fiscal 2011 to $576.3 million for fiscal 2012. This increase was due primarily to a number of new and continuing projects, including projects relating to vaccine production facilities. Although we view this market as being steady, we see growth prospects in the areas of biotechnology based drug development in Europe and North America and for secondary manufacturing expansion in Asia and South America.Revenues from clients operating in the RefiningDownstream market increased $123.7 million, or 5.5%, from $2.26 billion for fiscal 2011 to $2.38 billion for fiscal 2012. The increase was due primarily to higher business volume principally within the Companys operations in the U.S. and Canada. We believe the level of profits realized by our refinery clients will help drive new capital projects, particularly as refiners assess possible changes in their crude slate and the need to revamp decades old facilities to meet changing demand and the continuing effects of recent environmental regulations. We believe the Refining Downstream market will remain strong in fiscal 2013.Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals market increased $100.9 million, or 22.5%, from $449.2 million for fiscal 2011 to $550.1 million for fiscal 2012. This increase is due primarily to the inclusion of the revenues of the Aker Entities for all of fiscal 2012, versus only a portion of fiscal 2011. The "Aker Entities" refer to certain businesses that were acquired in separate transactions that were completed in February and April 2011, and which are described in more detail in Note 3Business Combinations of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Although we see opportunities to grow this business in fiscal 2013, our clients in this market have been affected negatively by falling spot prices for iron ore, coking, and thermal coal and weaker commodity prices albeit these declines have occurred from prices that were generally high from a historical perspective. Further influencing this market is continued European banking instability, the weak U.S. recovery, and a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Despite this cooling market we believe that we are well positioned to capture additional market share during fiscal 2013, particularly in the area of small cap projects and maintenance driven work.Revenues from clients operating in the Oil and GasUpstream market increased $37.1 million, or 4.9%, from $753.5 million for fiscal 2011 to $790.5 million for fiscal 2012. The Canadian oil and gas business continues to improve. The Company anticipates this market to remain strong during fiscal 2013. Projections continue to show a strong oil price forecast Page37Table of Contentswhich should keep the market moving forward. We also anticipate an increase in our field services activities for clients in this market in fiscal 2013.National Government Programs revenues for fiscal 2012 remained relatively flat compared to fiscal 2011. We believe that uncertainties associated with sequestration (i.e., that mechanism within the Budget Control Act of 2011 that can trigger automatic U.S. government spending cuts in the event the U.S. Congress and the President fail to to agree on a budget by the end of calendar 2012) caused several agencies to slow the release of work in 2012. We believe the impact to the Company, if any, of sequestration, should it occur, will likely begin in late fiscal 2013. Nevertheless, certain recent changes in government contracting in the U.S. have helped to stabilize this area of our business and may continue to help stabilize it in the future. We have seen an increasing volume of work released by U.S. government agencies in the form of multiple award task order contracts ("MATOC"). These types of awards allow the Company to bid on, and participate in, more government sites than large, single award contracts. We believe our cost profile makes us very competitive for MATOC type awards. Revenues from clients operating in the Buildings market decreased $49.6 million, or 5.5%, from $893.5 million for fiscal 2011 to $844.0 million for fiscal 2012. In general, we see a shift in this industry group towards projects for clients in the private sector; driven by a continuing decline in government spending. Growth in the private sector business is coming from mission critical, education, healthcare, aviation, and corporate and commercial programs and projects. We anticipate continued growth in fiscal 2013.Direct costs of contracts increased $344.6 million, or 3.9%, from $8.82 billion during fiscal 2011 to $9.17 billion during fiscal 2012. Direct costs of contracts include all costs incurred in connection with and directly for the benefit of client contracts, including depreciation and amortization relating to assets used in connection with providing the services required by client projects. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well.Pass through costs increased $209.9 million, or 9.9%, from $2.12 billion during fiscal 2011 to $2.33 billion for fiscal 2012. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues however, decreased $67.2 million, or 1.5%, from $4.50 billion during fiscal 2011 to $4.43 billion during fiscal 2012. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business.As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 84.1% for fiscal 2012, compared to 85.0% for fiscal 2011. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to improved margins for our project services (margins relating to our field services were virtually unchanged). Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses for fiscal 2012 increased by $90.3 million, or 8.7%, to $1.13 billion, compared to $1.04 billion for fiscal 2011. These increases were due primarily to the SG&A expenses attributable to acquired businesses.Operating profit was $596.1 million for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, compared to $518.9 million, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.5% for fiscal 2012, compared to 5.0% in fiscal 2011. Improved margins for our Project Services contributed to this increase.Interest income during fiscal 2012 increased $1.1 million as compared to the prior year. Contributing to this Page38Table of Contentsincrease was higher average cash balances on deposit in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.Interest expense for fiscal 2012 increased $2.9 million, as compared to fiscal 2011. Interest expense in both fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. The increase is due primarily to the inclusion of interest expense associated with acquisition indebtedness for all of fiscal 2012, versus only a portion of fiscal 2011.The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 34.1% for fiscal 2012, compared to 35.1% in fiscal 2011. In general, the lower effective tax rate in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 is due to the changing geographical source of our earnings combined with an increase in the utilization of U.S. foreign tax credits. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the U.S., and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the U.S. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change.Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010The most significant event that affects the comparability of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 was the loss recorded last year in connection with the SIVOM Judgment.During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (the SIVOM Judgment). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Net of the effects of the charge on the Companys long term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share.Because of the unusual nature of the SIVOM Judgment, we include in certain places within this MD&A a discussion of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 as it compares to fiscal 2010, both with and without the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. Although any fiscal 2010 information that excludes the effects of the SIVOM Judgment is non U.S. GAAP, it is presented because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Companys current financial performance and operating trends.The following table reconciles the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP to its fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment (in thousands, except earnings per share): Financial Statement Element Results asPresented(U.S. GAAP) Effects of theSIVOM Judgment Results Before theEffects of theSIVOM Judgment(non U.S. GAAP)Revenue $9,915,517 $(25,894) $9,941,411Direct costs of contracts $(8,582,912) $(58,641) $(8,524,271)Selling, general, and administrative expenses $(932,522) $6,363 $(938,885)Net interest income (expense) $(5,083) $(8,725) $3,642Earnings (loss) before taxes $391,934 $(86,897) $478,831Income tax (expense) benefit $(145,647) $26,620 $(172,267)Net earnings (loss) attributable to Jacobs $245,974 $(60,277) $306,251Diluted earnings (loss) per share $1.96 $(0.48) $2.44We recorded net earnings of $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, net earnings and earnings per share for fiscal 2010 were $306.3 million and $2.44, respectively.Revenues increased $466.1 million, or 4.7%, from $9.9 billion for fiscal 2010 to $10.4 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals markets increased significantly during fiscal 2011 due primarily to Page39Table of Contentsthe acquisition of the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients for Infrastructure projects increased $280.7 million, or 29.9%, from $939.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $1.2 billion for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were higher Project Services revenues for various transportation projects in the U.S. combined with revenues attributable to the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals & Polymers markets increased $257.8 million, or 21.4%, from $1.2 billion for fiscal 2010 to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Oil & Gas Upstream markets increased $194.0 million, or 34.7%, from $559.5 million for fiscal 2010 to $753.5 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were several large, EPC projects performed in North America.Direct costs of contracts increased $239.3 million, or 2.8%, from $8.6 billion during fiscal 2010 to $8.8 billion during fiscal 2011. Pass through costs decreased $604.8 million, or 22.2%, from $2.7 billion during fiscal 2010 to $2.1 billion for fiscal 2011. Field services revenues decreased $306.7 million, or 6.4%, from $4.8 billion during fiscal 2010 to $4.5 billion during fiscal 2011. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 86.6% for fiscal 2010. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs.SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 increased by $108.1 million, or 11.6%, to $1.04 billion, compared to $932.5 million for fiscal 2010. The Aker Entities contributed $113.0 million (inclusive of due diligence and integration costs) of SG&A expenses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Excluding the SG&A expenses of the Aker Entities, SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.9 million compared to fiscal 2010. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2011 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses.Operating profit was $518.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $400.1 million ($478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 4.0% in fiscal 2010 (4.8%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment).Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2011, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments remained low in fiscal 2011.Interest expense for fiscal 2011 decreased $1.1 million, as compared to fiscal 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2011 increased $8.8 million as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Interest expense in fiscal 2010 included the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over a number of years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully.The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 35.1% for fiscal 2011, compared to 37.2% in fiscal 2010. The tax rate in fiscal 2011 decreased from fiscal 2010 due to a change in the mix of international work and the successful resolution of a U.S. domestic tax issue. Page40Table of ContentsContractual ObligationsThe following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of September 28, 2012 (in thousands): Payments Due by Fiscal Period Total 1 Yearor Less 2 3Years 4 5Years More than 5YearsDebt obligations $528,260 $ $ $528,260 $Operating leases (a) 871,857 153,328 285,176 168,636 264,717Obligations under defined benefit pension plans (b) 474,555 63,065 133,799 144,717 132,974Obligations under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (c) 105,806 6,100 12,941 13,997 72,768Purchase obligations (d) 1,123,389 1,123,389 Interest (e) 26,201 5,822 11,645 8,734 Total $3,130,068 $1,351,704 $443,561 $864,344 $470,459 (a)Assumes the Company will make the end of lease term residual value guarantee payment of $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of an office building in Houston, Texas. Please refer to Note 10Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K.(b)Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2013, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of September 28, 2012. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements.(c)Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2012, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of September 28, 2012.(d)Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of September 28, 2012; primarily accounts payable and accrued payroll.(e)Determined based on borrowings outstanding at the end of fiscal 2012 using the interest rates in effect at that time and concluding with the expiration date of the 2012 Facility.BacklogBacklog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods.The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 2012 2011 2010Technical professional services $10,266.5 $9,100.1 $7,588.9Field services 5,643.2 5,189.7 5,613.1Total $15,909.7 $14,289.8 $13,202.0The entire value of contract awards are added to backlog when the contracts are awarded to us. Accordingly, backlog can fluctuate from one reporting period to the next due to the timing of when new contracts are added to backlog and when the contract revenue is recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years). Our backlog at September 28, 2012 increased by$1.6 billion, or 11.3%, to $15.9 billion from $14.3 billion at September 30, 2011. The increase in backlog from September 30, 2011 to September 28, 2012 was due primarily to new awards from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers, Oil & GasUpstream, and Mining and Minerals industries and markets.Page41Table of ContentsIn accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2012.While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $3.6 billion (or 22.9% of total backlog), $3.6 billion (or 24.9% of total backlog), and $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog) at September 28, 2012, September 30, 2011, and October 1, 2010, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts).Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1ARisk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $8.6 billion, or 54.0%, of total backlog at September 28, 2012 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year.Effects of InflationThe effects of inflation on our business is discussed in Item 1ARisk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesAt September 28, 2012, our primary sources of liquidity consisted of $1.03 billion of cash and cash equivalents, and $664.6 million of available borrowing capacity under our $1.21 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. We finance as much of our operations and growth as possible through cash generated by our operations.During fiscal 2012, our cash and cash equivalents increased by $126.8 million from $905.6 million at September 30, 2011 to $1.03 billion at September 28, 2012. This compares to a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $33.2 million during the corresponding period last year. During fiscal 2012, our operating activities contributed $299.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and the effects of exchange rate changes added another $10.9 million. These increases in cash flows were offset in part by net cash uses of $181.1 million for investing activities and $2.7 million for financing activities. Operations provided net cash of $299.8 million during fiscal 2012. This compares to net cash inflows of $236.5 million and $223.6 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $63.3 million increase in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due primarily to a $55.7 million increase in net earnings attributable to the Group and a $22.9 million favorable change in the Companys working capital accounts, offset in part by a $16.9 million change relating to deferred income taxes.Because such a high percentage of our revenues are earned on cost plus type contracts, and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Companys working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Accounts receivable consist of billings to our clients a substantial portion of which is for project related costs. Billings in excess of cost consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred.This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique to our industry, and facilitates review of our liquidity at the total working capital level. The changes in cash flows relating to our working capital accounts were due simply to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts and is not indicative of any known trend or fundamental change to the underlying business. There were only minor changes within the components of our working capital accounts during fiscal 2012 when compared to fiscal 2011. We still continue to experience delays in certain payments and have seen an increase in the length of payment terms with certain customers. We believe that this situation does not present a significant risk to the Companys cash flows. We believe the risk of not collecting substantially all of the Companys outstanding receivables is remote. Though the Company provides services in a number of countries outside the U.S., we believe our credit risk is not significant. Our private sector customers are comprised principally of large, well Page42Table of Contentsknown, and well established multi national companies. Our government customers are comprised of national, state, and local agencies located principally in the U.S. and the U.K. We have not historically experienced significant collection issues with either of our governmental or non governmental customers. Furthermore, our largest government customer in the U.K. provides advance payments to the Company. We used $181.1 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2012. This compares to $801.8 million and $398.5 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $620.7 million decrease in cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due to to a decline in merger and acquisition activity.Additions to property and equipment totaled $102.6 million, $98.7 million, and $49.1 million for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Included in fiscal 2012 activity are significant expenditures for system software and hardware upgrades (relating principally to the businesses we recently acquired) and leasehold improvements (relating primarily to the consolidation of certain office space in one major market in the U.S., and the expansion of office space in several locations in the U.S. and overseas). Included in the fiscal 2011 activity was a $49.1 million addition to property plant and equipment related to the purchase of an office building we use in our operations and the associated equipment and furniture. Our financing activities resulted in net cash outflows of $2.7 million during fiscal 2012. This compares to net cash inflows of $556.9 million and $93.1 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $559.7 million net decrease in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the overall higher level of borrowing activity that occurred last year in support of the Companys merger and acquisition activity. The Company had $1.03 billion of cash and short term equivalents at September 28, 2012. Of this amount, approximately $779.5 million was held in the U.S. and $253.0 million was held outside of the U.S., primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Eurozone, and Australia. Other than the tax cost of repatriating funds held outside the U.S. to the U.S. (see Note 9Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K), there are no impediments to repatriating these funds to the U.S.On March 29, 2012, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $1.21 billion unsecured, revolving credit facility (the "2012 Facility") with a syndicate of large, U.S. domestic and international banks and financial institutions. The 2012 Facility replaces and refinances the Companys previous revolving credit facility originally entered into by the Company on December 15, 2005 (the "2005 Facility"). Effective with the closing of the 2012 Facility, all commitments under the 2005 Facility were terminated and were refinanced under the 2012 Facility. The total amount utilized under the 2012 Facility at September 28, 2012 was $540.4 million ($528.3 million in the form of direct borrowings and $12.1 million utilized in the form of letters of credit). The 2012 Facility has a five year maturity. Please refer to Note 6Borrowings of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information regarding the 2012 Facility.We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations, support our acquisition strategy, and service our debt for the next twelve months. We had $1.03 billion in cash and cash equivalents at September 28, 2012, compared to $905.6 million at September 30, 2011. Our consolidated working capital position at September 28, 2012 was $1.87 billion; an increase of $853.5 million from September 30, 2011. Contributing to this increase in working capital in fiscal 2012 was the refinancing of $566.0 million of short term debt under the the 2012 Facility.Additionally, there was $664.6 million of borrowing capacity available at September 28, 2012 under the 2012 Facility. We believe that the remaining capacity, terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, combined with cash on hand and the other committed and uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements.The Company had $224.9 million of letters of credit outstanding at September 28, 2012. Of this amount, $12.1 million had been issued under the 2012 Facility and $212.7 million were issued under separate, committed and uncommitted letter of credit facilities.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe are party to financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Page43Table of ContentsNew Accounting PronouncementsIn July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2012 02Testing Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment. ASU 2012 02 amends Topic 350 of the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") regarding how entities test indefinite lived intangible assets other than goodwill for possible impairment. ASU 2012 02 permits entities first to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite lived intangible asset is impaired as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test pursuant to ASC Subtopic 350 30. If the entity determines that is is more likely than not that such asset is not impaired based on its qualitative assessment, no further testing is required. The amendments in ASU 2012 02 are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2012 02 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.In December 2011, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2011 12Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 05. ASU 2011 12 amends Topic 220 of the ASC as that Topic was affected by ASU 2011 05. ASU 2011 05 required entities to, among other things, present reclassification adjustments and the effect of such adjustment on the face of the financial statements where net earnings is presented, by component of net earnings, and on the face of the financial statements where other comprehensive income is presented, by component of other comprehensive income. The effect of ASU 2011 12 is to defer the effective date of certain of the presentation requirements of ASU 2011 05 in order to give the FASB more time to deliberate such requirements. The amendments in ASU 2011 12 are effective at the same time as the amendments in ASU 2011 05 so that entities will not be required to comply with the presentation requirements in Update 2011 05 that ASU 2012 12 is deferring.Also in December 2011, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2011 11Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities. ASU 2011 11 amends Topic 210 of the ASC and requires entities to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of their financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on their respective financial positions. The scope of this ASU includes derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements, reverse sale and repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending agreements. Entities are required to apply the provisions of ASU 2011 11 for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2011 11 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 08Intangibles Goodwill and Other. ASU 2011 08 amends Topic 350 of the ASC and simplifies how entities test goodwill for possible impairment. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two step goodwill impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. ASU 2011 08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2011 08 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 05Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011 05 amends Topic 220 of the ASC and provides that an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. The provisions of ASU 2011 05 will be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 05, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. Page44Table of ContentsItem 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates.Interest Rate RiskPlease refer to the discussion of the Companys 2012 Facility in the liquidity and capital resources discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Foreign Currency RiskIn situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC 815 10 in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations.
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below, for a description of this matter and its effects on the Companys fiscal 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as for a reconciliation to the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP).Page31Table of ContentsItem 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSCritical Accounting PoliciesIn order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements.The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long term engineering and construction type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entitys results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint VenturesIn general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage of completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress as of the balance sheet dates. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate the possible effects of variances in schedule; the costs of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. For contracts containing incentive fee arrangements, fees are frequently based on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project.We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. For multiple contracts with a single customer we account for each contract separately.The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims.Certain cost reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly.As is common to the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. Although the joint ventures own and hold the contracts with the clients, the services required by the contracts are typically performed by us and our joint venture partners, or by other subcontractors under subcontracting agreements with the joint ventures. The assets of our joint ventures, therefore, consist almost entirely of cash and receivables (representing amounts due from clients), and the liabilities of our joint ventures consist almost entirely of amounts due to the joint venture partners (for services provided by the partners to the joint ventures under their individual subcontracts) and other subcontractors. In general, at any given time, the equity of our joint ventures represents the undistributed profits earned on contracts the joint ventures hold with clients. Very few of our joint ventures have employees. None of our joint ventures have third party debt or credit facilities. Our joint ventures, therefore, are simply mechanisms used to deliver engineering and construction services to clients. Rarely do they, in and of themselves, present any risk of loss to us or to our partners separate Page32Table of Contentsfrom those that we would carry if we were performing the contract on our own. Under U.S. GAAP, our share of losses associated with the contracts held by the joint ventures, if and when they occur, has always been reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements.In evaluating the Companys joint ventures (also referred to as "variable interest entities", or "VIEs") for accounting and consolidation purposes, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether or not the Company has a controlling financial interest in the VIE. The Company is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a VIE if it has (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance; and (ii) the right to receive benefits, or obligation to absorb losses, that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In making our qualitative analysis, the Company assesses each VIE to determine those activities that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and whether the Company, another entity, or multiple entities have the power to direct those activities. If we determine that we have the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its financial performance and have the right or obligation to receive benefits or absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE, then we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE and we consolidate the VIE. If we determine that we do not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE or power is shared by two or more unrelated parties, then we are not the primary beneficiary and we do not consolidate the VIE.For the Companys unconsolidated joint ventures, we use the equity method of accounting. The Company does not currently participate in any significant VIEs in which it has a controlling financial interest. There were no changes in facts and circumstances in the period that caused the Company to reassess the method of accounting for its VIEs.Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award. We estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Like all option pricing models, the Black Scholes models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including (i) the expected volatility of the market price of the underlying stock, and (ii) the expected term of the award, among others. Accordingly, changes in assumptions and any subsequent adjustments to those assumptions can cause drastically different fair values to be assigned to our stock option awards. For restricted stock units containing service and performance conditions with measures external to the Company, compensation expense is based on the fair value of such units determined using Monte Carlo Simulations. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the use of assumptions and the results of applying Monte Carlo Simulations, the amount of expense recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements may not be representative of the effects on our future consolidated financial statements because equity awards tend to vest over several years and additional equity awards may be made in the future.Accounting for Pension Plans The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K.The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2013 range from 2.4% to 8.5%; this compares to a range of 2.7% to 7.5% for fiscal 2012. We believe the range of rates selected for fiscal 2013 reflects the long term returns expected on the plans assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.6% to 5.9% in fiscal 2011 to a range of 0.6% to 8.4% in fiscal 2012. These assumptions represent the Companys best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled.Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the net pension benefit obligation (PBO) at September 28, 2012 was higher (lower) by 0.5%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $100.8 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $24.4 million for U.S. plans. If the expected return on plan assets was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2013 would be lower (higher) by approximately $8.9 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $3.5 million for U.S. plans. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used. Page33Table of ContentsContractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts.In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such liabilities in our consolidated results of operations.In addition, as a contractor providing services to the U.S. federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations.Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as Europe and Non Europe. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2012 Form 10 K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services.Our geography based reporting units reflect the Companys organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and where all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions.U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. The valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates and future market conditions, among others.For fiscal years 2011 and 2010 , we used a market approach for valuing our reporting units. Under this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Companys overall average market earnings multiple.The key inputs used in the valuation model were the after tax earnings of our reporting units and the Companys market driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2011 and 2010 were approximately 18 and 14, respectively. For fiscal year 2012, we used both an income approach and a market approach to test our goodwill for possible impairment. Such approaches require us to make estimates and judgments. Under the income approach, fair vale is determined by using the discounted cash flows of our reporting units. Under the market approach, the fair value of our reporting units is determined by reference to guideline companies that are reasonably comparable to our reporting units; the fair values are estimated based on the valuation multiples of the invested capital associated with the guideline companies. In assessing whether there is an indication that the carrying value of goodwill has been impaired, we utilize the results of both valuation techniques and consider the range of fair values indicated. The fair values for each reporting unit exceeded the respective book values by over 30%. The key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units in our testing were: Income ApproachCompany financial projections for fiscal years 2012 to 2015Weighted average cost of capital of 12%Residual period growth rate of 3%Page34Table of ContentsMarket ApproachWith respect to the market approach, the Company used multiples ranging from 6.2 to 8.0 of EBITDA (generally, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization), and from 7.3 to 9.6 for EBIT (generally, earnings before interest and taxes) for guideline publicly traded companies reasonably comparable to the Companys reporting units applied to the trailing twelve months results of operations for each of our reporting units.It is possible that changes in market conditions, economy, facts and circumstances, judgments, and assumptions used in estimating the fair value could change, resulting in possible impairment of goodwill in the future. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties.The Company performs the annual goodwill impairment test for the reporting units in the third quarter of our fiscal year. The Company will test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We have determined that the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010.Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at either September 28, 2012 or September 30, 2011. Fiscal 2012 OverviewThe Companys net earnings increased $47.9 million, or 14.5%, from $331.0 million for fiscal 2011 to $379.0 million for fiscal 2012. Included in net earnings for fiscal 2012 is a one time, after tax gain of $4.0 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, related to the sale of the Companys intellectual property for iron ore pelletizing and other related assets ("pelletizing gain"). The sale was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Excluding the pelletizing gain, the Companys net earnings for fiscal 2012 grew 13.3% from the prior year. Although any fiscal 2012 information that excludes the pelletizing gain is non U.S. GAAP, we use such information in this MD&A because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Companys current financial performance and operating trends.In spite of the difficult economic environment that continued to plague many of the end markets that we serve, the Company was able to grow net earnings by 13.3% and revenues by 4.9% from the prior year. This growth was facilitated by increased activity across several of the major markets in which our clients operate, including the hydrocarbons business (refining and upstream oil and gas), chemicals and polymers, mining and minerals, and pharmaceuticals and biotechnology. This growth occurred principally within the technical, professional services areas of our business. Backlog at September 28, 2012 increased $1.62 billion, or 11.3%, to $15.91 billion. Backlog at September 28, 2012 includes new awards from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers, Oil & Gas Upstream, and Mining and Minerals industries and markets. Page35Table of ContentsResults of OperationsGeneralOur business focuses exclusively on providing technical professional services and field services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories:Project services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, interiors, planning, and similar services);Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which include a wide variety of services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology, and systems engineering and integration activities);Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct hire construction and construction management services); andOperations and Maintenance services (which include services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance).The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single responsibility, design build contracts, to services required in the post start up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services.The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2012 2011 2010Technical Professional Services revenues: Project Services $5,693,419 $5,070,575 $4,224,898Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 772,031 815,561 888,405Total Technical Professional Services revenues 6,465,450 5,886,136 5,113,303Field Services revenues: Construction 3,145,311 3,060,820 3,722,101Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 1,283,017 1,434,708 1,080,113Total Field Services revenues 4,428,328 4,495,528 4,802,214 $10,893,778 $10,381,664 $9,915,517Page36Table of ContentsWe focus our services on clients operating in select industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2012 2011 2010Refining Downstream $2,379,750 $2,256,092 $2,876,059National Government Programs 2,272,611 2,313,240 2,314,548Chemicals and Polymers 1,704,723 1,461,125 1,203,373Infrastructure 1,085,649 1,219,633 938,978Buildings 843,938 893,528 869,248Oil & Gas Upstream 790,546 753,471 559,492Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 576,303 404,687 589,795Mining & Minerals 550,134 449,194 26,161Industrial and Other 690,124 630,694 537,863 $10,893,778 $10,381,664 $9,915,517We recorded net earnings of $379 million, or $2.94 per diluted share ($375 million, or $2.91 per diluted share excluding the pelletizing gain), for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, compared to $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.Revenues increased $512.1 million, or 4.9%, from $10.38 billion for fiscal 2011 to $10.89 billion for fiscal 2012.Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries increased $243.6 million, or 16.7%, from $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011 to $1.7 billion for fiscal 2012. The effect of shale gas projects and the low price of natural gas had an impact on the chemicals market in fiscal 2012. Because there is now a large source of feedstock available outside refineries which can grow independently of the refining infrastructure, we believe more projects are now economically viable and capital is being deployed to develop these opportunities. Furthermore, our clients are looking at various options to monetize natural gas.Revenues from clients operating in the Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology markets increased $171.6 million, or 42.4%, from $404.7 million for fiscal 2011 to $576.3 million for fiscal 2012. This increase was due primarily to a number of new and continuing projects, including projects relating to vaccine production facilities. Although we view this market as being steady, we see growth prospects in the areas of biotechnology based drug development in Europe and North America and for secondary manufacturing expansion in Asia and South America.Revenues from clients operating in the RefiningDownstream market increased $123.7 million, or 5.5%, from $2.26 billion for fiscal 2011 to $2.38 billion for fiscal 2012. The increase was due primarily to higher business volume principally within the Companys operations in the U.S. and Canada. We believe the level of profits realized by our refinery clients will help drive new capital projects, particularly as refiners assess possible changes in their crude slate and the need to revamp decades old facilities to meet changing demand and the continuing effects of recent environmental regulations. We believe the Refining Downstream market will remain strong in fiscal 2013.Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals market increased $100.9 million, or 22.5%, from $449.2 million for fiscal 2011 to $550.1 million for fiscal 2012. This increase is due primarily to the inclusion of the revenues of the Aker Entities for all of fiscal 2012, versus only a portion of fiscal 2011. The "Aker Entities" refer to certain businesses that were acquired in separate transactions that were completed in February and April 2011, and which are described in more detail in Note 3Business Combinations of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Although we see opportunities to grow this business in fiscal 2013, our clients in this market have been affected negatively by falling spot prices for iron ore, coking, and thermal coal and weaker commodity prices albeit these declines have occurred from prices that were generally high from a historical perspective. Further influencing this market is continued European banking instability, the weak U.S. recovery, and a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Despite this cooling market we believe that we are well positioned to capture additional market share during fiscal 2013, particularly in the area of small cap projects and maintenance driven work.Revenues from clients operating in the Oil and GasUpstream market increased $37.1 million, or 4.9%, from $753.5 million for fiscal 2011 to $790.5 million for fiscal 2012. The Canadian oil and gas business continues to improve. The Company anticipates this market to remain strong during fiscal 2013. Projections continue to show a strong oil price forecast Page37Table of Contentswhich should keep the market moving forward. We also anticipate an increase in our field services activities for clients in this market in fiscal 2013.National Government Programs revenues for fiscal 2012 remained relatively flat compared to fiscal 2011. We believe that uncertainties associated with sequestration (i.e., that mechanism within the Budget Control Act of 2011 that can trigger automatic U.S. government spending cuts in the event the U.S. Congress and the President fail to to agree on a budget by the end of calendar 2012) caused several agencies to slow the release of work in 2012. We believe the impact to the Company, if any, of sequestration, should it occur, will likely begin in late fiscal 2013. Nevertheless, certain recent changes in government contracting in the U.S. have helped to stabilize this area of our business and may continue to help stabilize it in the future. We have seen an increasing volume of work released by U.S. government agencies in the form of multiple award task order contracts ("MATOC"). These types of awards allow the Company to bid on, and participate in, more government sites than large, single award contracts. We believe our cost profile makes us very competitive for MATOC type awards. Revenues from clients operating in the Buildings market decreased $49.6 million, or 5.5%, from $893.5 million for fiscal 2011 to $844.0 million for fiscal 2012. In general, we see a shift in this industry group towards projects for clients in the private sector; driven by a continuing decline in government spending. Growth in the private sector business is coming from mission critical, education, healthcare, aviation, and corporate and commercial programs and projects. We anticipate continued growth in fiscal 2013.Direct costs of contracts increased $344.6 million, or 3.9%, from $8.82 billion during fiscal 2011 to $9.17 billion during fiscal 2012. Direct costs of contracts include all costs incurred in connection with and directly for the benefit of client contracts, including depreciation and amortization relating to assets used in connection with providing the services required by client projects. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well.Pass through costs increased $209.9 million, or 9.9%, from $2.12 billion during fiscal 2011 to $2.33 billion for fiscal 2012. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues however, decreased $67.2 million, or 1.5%, from $4.50 billion during fiscal 2011 to $4.43 billion during fiscal 2012. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business.As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 84.1% for fiscal 2012, compared to 85.0% for fiscal 2011. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to improved margins for our project services (margins relating to our field services were virtually unchanged). Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses for fiscal 2012 increased by $90.3 million, or 8.7%, to $1.13 billion, compared to $1.04 billion for fiscal 2011. These increases were due primarily to the SG&A expenses attributable to acquired businesses.Operating profit was $596.1 million for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, compared to $518.9 million, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.5% for fiscal 2012, compared to 5.0% in fiscal 2011. Improved margins for our Project Services contributed to this increase.Interest income during fiscal 2012 increased $1.1 million as compared to the prior year. Contributing to this Page38Table of Contentsincrease was higher average cash balances on deposit in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.Interest expense for fiscal 2012 increased $2.9 million, as compared to fiscal 2011. Interest expense in both fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. The increase is due primarily to the inclusion of interest expense associated with acquisition indebtedness for all of fiscal 2012, versus only a portion of fiscal 2011.The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 34.1% for fiscal 2012, compared to 35.1% in fiscal 2011. In general, the lower effective tax rate in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 is due to the changing geographical source of our earnings combined with an increase in the utilization of U.S. foreign tax credits. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the U.S., and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the U.S. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change.Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010The most significant event that affects the comparability of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 was the loss recorded last year in connection with the SIVOM Judgment.During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (the SIVOM Judgment). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Net of the effects of the charge on the Companys long term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share.Because of the unusual nature of the SIVOM Judgment, we include in certain places within this MD&A a discussion of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 as it compares to fiscal 2010, both with and without the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. Although any fiscal 2010 information that excludes the effects of the SIVOM Judgment is non U.S. GAAP, it is presented because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Companys current financial performance and operating trends.The following table reconciles the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP to its fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment (in thousands, except earnings per share): Financial Statement Element Results asPresented(U.S. GAAP) Effects of theSIVOM Judgment Results Before theEffects of theSIVOM Judgment(non U.S. GAAP)Revenue $9,915,517 $(25,894) $9,941,411Direct costs of contracts $(8,582,912) $(58,641) $(8,524,271)Selling, general, and administrative expenses $(932,522) $6,363 $(938,885)Net interest income (expense) $(5,083) $(8,725) $3,642Earnings (loss) before taxes $391,934 $(86,897) $478,831Income tax (expense) benefit $(145,647) $26,620 $(172,267)Net earnings (loss) attributable to Jacobs $245,974 $(60,277) $306,251Diluted earnings (loss) per share $1.96 $(0.48) $2.44We recorded net earnings of $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, net earnings and earnings per share for fiscal 2010 were $306.3 million and $2.44, respectively.Revenues increased $466.1 million, or 4.7%, from $9.9 billion for fiscal 2010 to $10.4 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals markets increased significantly during fiscal 2011 due primarily to Page39Table of Contentsthe acquisition of the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients for Infrastructure projects increased $280.7 million, or 29.9%, from $939.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $1.2 billion for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were higher Project Services revenues for various transportation projects in the U.S. combined with revenues attributable to the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals & Polymers markets increased $257.8 million, or 21.4%, from $1.2 billion for fiscal 2010 to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Oil & Gas Upstream markets increased $194.0 million, or 34.7%, from $559.5 million for fiscal 2010 to $753.5 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were several large, EPC projects performed in North America.Direct costs of contracts increased $239.3 million, or 2.8%, from $8.6 billion during fiscal 2010 to $8.8 billion during fiscal 2011. Pass through costs decreased $604.8 million, or 22.2%, from $2.7 billion during fiscal 2010 to $2.1 billion for fiscal 2011. Field services revenues decreased $306.7 million, or 6.4%, from $4.8 billion during fiscal 2010 to $4.5 billion during fiscal 2011. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 86.6% for fiscal 2010. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs.SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 increased by $108.1 million, or 11.6%, to $1.04 billion, compared to $932.5 million for fiscal 2010. The Aker Entities contributed $113.0 million (inclusive of due diligence and integration costs) of SG&A expenses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Excluding the SG&A expenses of the Aker Entities, SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.9 million compared to fiscal 2010. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2011 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses.Operating profit was $518.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $400.1 million ($478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 4.0% in fiscal 2010 (4.8%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment).Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2011, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments remained low in fiscal 2011.Interest expense for fiscal 2011 decreased $1.1 million, as compared to fiscal 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2011 increased $8.8 million as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Interest expense in fiscal 2010 included the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over a number of years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully.The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 35.1% for fiscal 2011, compared to 37.2% in fiscal 2010. The tax rate in fiscal 2011 decreased from fiscal 2010 due to a change in the mix of international work and the successful resolution of a U.S. domestic tax issue. Page40Table of ContentsContractual ObligationsThe following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of September 28, 2012 (in thousands): Payments Due by Fiscal Period Total 1 Yearor Less 2 3Years 4 5Years More than 5YearsDebt obligations $528,260 $ $ $528,260 $Operating leases (a) 871,857 153,328 285,176 168,636 264,717Obligations under defined benefit pension plans (b) 474,555 63,065 133,799 144,717 132,974Obligations under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (c) 105,806 6,100 12,941 13,997 72,768Purchase obligations (d) 1,123,389 1,123,389 Interest (e) 26,201 5,822 11,645 8,734 Total $3,130,068 $1,351,704 $443,561 $864,344 $470,459 (a)Assumes the Company will make the end of lease term residual value guarantee payment of $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of an office building in Houston, Texas. Please refer to Note 10Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K.(b)Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2013, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of September 28, 2012. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements.(c)Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2012, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of September 28, 2012.(d)Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of September 28, 2012; primarily accounts payable and accrued payroll.(e)Determined based on borrowings outstanding at the end of fiscal 2012 using the interest rates in effect at that time and concluding with the expiration date of the 2012 Facility.BacklogBacklog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods.The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 2012 2011 2010Technical professional services $10,266.5 $9,100.1 $7,588.9Field services 5,643.2 5,189.7 5,613.1Total $15,909.7 $14,289.8 $13,202.0The entire value of contract awards are added to backlog when the contracts are awarded to us. Accordingly, backlog can fluctuate from one reporting period to the next due to the timing of when new contracts are added to backlog and when the contract revenue is recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years). Our backlog at September 28, 2012 increased by$1.6 billion, or 11.3%, to $15.9 billion from $14.3 billion at September 30, 2011. The increase in backlog from September 30, 2011 to September 28, 2012 was due primarily to new awards from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers, Oil & GasUpstream, and Mining and Minerals industries and markets.Page41Table of ContentsIn accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2012.While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $3.6 billion (or 22.9% of total backlog), $3.6 billion (or 24.9% of total backlog), and $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog) at September 28, 2012, September 30, 2011, and October 1, 2010, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts).Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1ARisk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $8.6 billion, or 54.0%, of total backlog at September 28, 2012 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year.Effects of InflationThe effects of inflation on our business is discussed in Item 1ARisk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesAt September 28, 2012, our primary sources of liquidity consisted of $1.03 billion of cash and cash equivalents, and $664.6 million of available borrowing capacity under our $1.21 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. We finance as much of our operations and growth as possible through cash generated by our operations.During fiscal 2012, our cash and cash equivalents increased by $126.8 million from $905.6 million at September 30, 2011 to $1.03 billion at September 28, 2012. This compares to a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $33.2 million during the corresponding period last year. During fiscal 2012, our operating activities contributed $299.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and the effects of exchange rate changes added another $10.9 million. These increases in cash flows were offset in part by net cash uses of $181.1 million for investing activities and $2.7 million for financing activities. Operations provided net cash of $299.8 million during fiscal 2012. This compares to net cash inflows of $236.5 million and $223.6 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $63.3 million increase in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due primarily to a $55.7 million increase in net earnings attributable to the Group and a $22.9 million favorable change in the Companys working capital accounts, offset in part by a $16.9 million change relating to deferred income taxes.Because such a high percentage of our revenues are earned on cost plus type contracts, and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Companys working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Accounts receivable consist of billings to our clients a substantial portion of which is for project related costs. Billings in excess of cost consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred.This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique to our industry, and facilitates review of our liquidity at the total working capital level. The changes in cash flows relating to our working capital accounts were due simply to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts and is not indicative of any known trend or fundamental change to the underlying business. There were only minor changes within the components of our working capital accounts during fiscal 2012 when compared to fiscal 2011. We still continue to experience delays in certain payments and have seen an increase in the length of payment terms with certain customers. We believe that this situation does not present a significant risk to the Companys cash flows. We believe the risk of not collecting substantially all of the Companys outstanding receivables is remote. Though the Company provides services in a number of countries outside the U.S., we believe our credit risk is not significant. Our private sector customers are comprised principally of large, well Page42Table of Contentsknown, and well established multi national companies. Our government customers are comprised of national, state, and local agencies located principally in the U.S. and the U.K. We have not historically experienced significant collection issues with either of our governmental or non governmental customers. Furthermore, our largest government customer in the U.K. provides advance payments to the Company. We used $181.1 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2012. This compares to $801.8 million and $398.5 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $620.7 million decrease in cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due to to a decline in merger and acquisition activity.Additions to property and equipment totaled $102.6 million, $98.7 million, and $49.1 million for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Included in fiscal 2012 activity are significant expenditures for system software and hardware upgrades (relating principally to the businesses we recently acquired) and leasehold improvements (relating primarily to the consolidation of certain office space in one major market in the U.S., and the expansion of office space in several locations in the U.S. and overseas). Included in the fiscal 2011 activity was a $49.1 million addition to property plant and equipment related to the purchase of an office building we use in our operations and the associated equipment and furniture. Our financing activities resulted in net cash outflows of $2.7 million during fiscal 2012. This compares to net cash inflows of $556.9 million and $93.1 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $559.7 million net decrease in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the overall higher level of borrowing activity that occurred last year in support of the Companys merger and acquisition activity. The Company had $1.03 billion of cash and short term equivalents at September 28, 2012. Of this amount, approximately $779.5 million was held in the U.S. and $253.0 million was held outside of the U.S., primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Eurozone, and Australia. Other than the tax cost of repatriating funds held outside the U.S. to the U.S. (see Note 9Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K), there are no impediments to repatriating these funds to the U.S.On March 29, 2012, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $1.21 billion unsecured, revolving credit facility (the "2012 Facility") with a syndicate of large, U.S. domestic and international banks and financial institutions. The 2012 Facility replaces and refinances the Companys previous revolving credit facility originally entered into by the Company on December 15, 2005 (the "2005 Facility"). Effective with the closing of the 2012 Facility, all commitments under the 2005 Facility were terminated and were refinanced under the 2012 Facility. The total amount utilized under the 2012 Facility at September 28, 2012 was $540.4 million ($528.3 million in the form of direct borrowings and $12.1 million utilized in the form of letters of credit). The 2012 Facility has a five year maturity. Please refer to Note 6Borrowings of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information regarding the 2012 Facility.We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations, support our acquisition strategy, and service our debt for the next twelve months. We had $1.03 billion in cash and cash equivalents at September 28, 2012, compared to $905.6 million at September 30, 2011. Our consolidated working capital position at September 28, 2012 was $1.87 billion; an increase of $853.5 million from September 30, 2011. Contributing to this increase in working capital in fiscal 2012 was the refinancing of $566.0 million of short term debt under the the 2012 Facility.Additionally, there was $664.6 million of borrowing capacity available at September 28, 2012 under the 2012 Facility. We believe that the remaining capacity, terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, combined with cash on hand and the other committed and uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements.The Company had $224.9 million of letters of credit outstanding at September 28, 2012. Of this amount, $12.1 million had been issued under the 2012 Facility and $212.7 million were issued under separate, committed and uncommitted letter of credit facilities.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe are party to financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Page43Table of ContentsNew Accounting PronouncementsIn July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2012 02Testing Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment. ASU 2012 02 amends Topic 350 of the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") regarding how entities test indefinite lived intangible assets other than goodwill for possible impairment. ASU 2012 02 permits entities first to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite lived intangible asset is impaired as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test pursuant to ASC Subtopic 350 30. If the entity determines that is is more likely than not that such asset is not impaired based on its qualitative assessment, no further testing is required. The amendments in ASU 2012 02 are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2012 02 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.In December 2011, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2011 12Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 05. ASU 2011 12 amends Topic 220 of the ASC as that Topic was affected by ASU 2011 05. ASU 2011 05 required entities to, among other things, present reclassification adjustments and the effect of such adjustment on the face of the financial statements where net earnings is presented, by component of net earnings, and on the face of the financial statements where other comprehensive income is presented, by component of other comprehensive income. The effect of ASU 2011 12 is to defer the effective date of certain of the presentation requirements of ASU 2011 05 in order to give the FASB more time to deliberate such requirements. The amendments in ASU 2011 12 are effective at the same time as the amendments in ASU 2011 05 so that entities will not be required to comply with the presentation requirements in Update 2011 05 that ASU 2012 12 is deferring.Also in December 2011, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2011 11Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities. ASU 2011 11 amends Topic 210 of the ASC and requires entities to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of their financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on their respective financial positions. The scope of this ASU includes derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements, reverse sale and repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending agreements. Entities are required to apply the provisions of ASU 2011 11 for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2011 11 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 08Intangibles Goodwill and Other. ASU 2011 08 amends Topic 350 of the ASC and simplifies how entities test goodwill for possible impairment. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two step goodwill impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. ASU 2011 08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2011 08 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 05Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011 05 amends Topic 220 of the ASC and provides that an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. The provisions of ASU 2011 05 will be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 05, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. Page44Table of ContentsItem 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates.Interest Rate RiskPlease refer to the discussion of the Companys 2012 Facility in the liquidity and capital resources discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Foreign Currency RiskIn situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC 815 10 in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations.
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSCritical Accounting PoliciesIn order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements.The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long term engineering and construction type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entitys results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint VenturesIn general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage of completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress as of the balance sheet dates. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate the possible effects of variances in schedule; the costs of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. For contracts containing incentive fee arrangements, fees are frequently based on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project.We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. For multiple contracts with a single customer we account for each contract separately.The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims.Certain cost reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly.As is common to the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. Although the joint ventures own and hold the contracts with the clients, the services required by the contracts are typically performed by us and our joint venture partners, or by other subcontractors under subcontracting agreements with the joint ventures. The assets of our joint ventures, therefore, consist almost entirely of cash and receivables (representing amounts due from clients), and the liabilities of our joint ventures consist almost entirely of amounts due to the joint venture partners (for services provided by the partners to the joint ventures under their individual subcontracts) and other subcontractors. In general, at any given time, the equity of our joint ventures represents the undistributed profits earned on contracts the joint ventures hold with clients. Very few of our joint ventures have employees. None of our joint ventures have third party debt or credit facilities. Our joint ventures, therefore, are simply mechanisms used to deliver engineering and construction services to clients. Rarely do they, in and of themselves, present any risk of loss to us or to our partners separate Page32Table of Contentsfrom those that we would carry if we were performing the contract on our own. Under U.S. GAAP, our share of losses associated with the contracts held by the joint ventures, if and when they occur, has always been reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements.In evaluating the Companys joint ventures (also referred to as "variable interest entities", or "VIEs") for accounting and consolidation purposes, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether or not the Company has a controlling financial interest in the VIE. The Company is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a VIE if it has (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance; and (ii) the right to receive benefits, or obligation to absorb losses, that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In making our qualitative analysis, the Company assesses each VIE to determine those activities that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and whether the Company, another entity, or multiple entities have the power to direct those activities. If we determine that we have the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its financial performance and have the right or obligation to receive benefits or absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE, then we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE and we consolidate the VIE. If we determine that we do not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE or power is shared by two or more unrelated parties, then we are not the primary beneficiary and we do not consolidate the VIE.For the Companys unconsolidated joint ventures, we use the equity method of accounting. The Company does not currently participate in any significant VIEs in which it has a controlling financial interest. There were no changes in facts and circumstances in the period that caused the Company to reassess the method of accounting for its VIEs.Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant date fair value of the award. We estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Like all option pricing models, the Black Scholes models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including (i) the expected volatility of the market price of the underlying stock, and (ii) the expected term of the award, among others. Accordingly, changes in assumptions and any subsequent adjustments to those assumptions can cause drastically different fair values to be assigned to our stock option awards. For restricted stock units containing service and performance conditions with measures external to the Company, compensation expense is based on the fair value of such units determined using Monte Carlo Simulations. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the use of assumptions and the results of applying Monte Carlo Simulations, the amount of expense recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements may not be representative of the effects on our future consolidated financial statements because equity awards tend to vest over several years and additional equity awards may be made in the future.Accounting for Pension Plans The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K.The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2013 range from 2.4% to 8.5%; this compares to a range of 2.7% to 7.5% for fiscal 2012. We believe the range of rates selected for fiscal 2013 reflects the long term returns expected on the plans assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.6% to 5.9% in fiscal 2011 to a range of 0.6% to 8.4% in fiscal 2012. These assumptions represent the Companys best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled.Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the net pension benefit obligation (PBO) at September 28, 2012 was higher (lower) by 0.5%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $100.8 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $24.4 million for U.S. plans. If the expected return on plan assets was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2013 would be lower (higher) by approximately $8.9 million for non U.S. plans, and by approximately $3.5 million for U.S. plans. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used. Page33Table of ContentsContractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts.In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such liabilities in our consolidated results of operations.In addition, as a contractor providing services to the U.S. federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations.Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as Europe and Non Europe. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2012 Form 10 K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services.Our geography based reporting units reflect the Companys organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and where all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions.U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. The valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates and future market conditions, among others.For fiscal years 2011 and 2010 , we used a market approach for valuing our reporting units. Under this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Companys overall average market earnings multiple.The key inputs used in the valuation model were the after tax earnings of our reporting units and the Companys market driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2011 and 2010 were approximately 18 and 14, respectively. For fiscal year 2012, we used both an income approach and a market approach to test our goodwill for possible impairment. Such approaches require us to make estimates and judgments. Under the income approach, fair vale is determined by using the discounted cash flows of our reporting units. Under the market approach, the fair value of our reporting units is determined by reference to guideline companies that are reasonably comparable to our reporting units; the fair values are estimated based on the valuation multiples of the invested capital associated with the guideline companies. In assessing whether there is an indication that the carrying value of goodwill has been impaired, we utilize the results of both valuation techniques and consider the range of fair values indicated. The fair values for each reporting unit exceeded the respective book values by over 30%. The key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units in our testing were: Income ApproachCompany financial projections for fiscal years 2012 to 2015Weighted average cost of capital of 12%Residual period growth rate of 3%Page34Table of ContentsMarket ApproachWith respect to the market approach, the Company used multiples ranging from 6.2 to 8.0 of EBITDA (generally, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization), and from 7.3 to 9.6 for EBIT (generally, earnings before interest and taxes) for guideline publicly traded companies reasonably comparable to the Companys reporting units applied to the trailing twelve months results of operations for each of our reporting units.It is possible that changes in market conditions, economy, facts and circumstances, judgments, and assumptions used in estimating the fair value could change, resulting in possible impairment of goodwill in the future. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties.The Company performs the annual goodwill impairment test for the reporting units in the third quarter of our fiscal year. The Company will test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We have determined that the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010.Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at either September 28, 2012 or September 30, 2011. Fiscal 2012 OverviewThe Companys net earnings increased $47.9 million, or 14.5%, from $331.0 million for fiscal 2011 to $379.0 million for fiscal 2012. Included in net earnings for fiscal 2012 is a one time, after tax gain of $4.0 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, related to the sale of the Companys intellectual property for iron ore pelletizing and other related assets ("pelletizing gain"). The sale was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Excluding the pelletizing gain, the Companys net earnings for fiscal 2012 grew 13.3% from the prior year. Although any fiscal 2012 information that excludes the pelletizing gain is non U.S. GAAP, we use such information in this MD&A because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Companys current financial performance and operating trends.In spite of the difficult economic environment that continued to plague many of the end markets that we serve, the Company was able to grow net earnings by 13.3% and revenues by 4.9% from the prior year. This growth was facilitated by increased activity across several of the major markets in which our clients operate, including the hydrocarbons business (refining and upstream oil and gas), chemicals and polymers, mining and minerals, and pharmaceuticals and biotechnology. This growth occurred principally within the technical, professional services areas of our business. Backlog at September 28, 2012 increased $1.62 billion, or 11.3%, to $15.91 billion. Backlog at September 28, 2012 includes new awards from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers, Oil & Gas Upstream, and Mining and Minerals industries and markets. Page35Table of ContentsResults of OperationsGeneralOur business focuses exclusively on providing technical professional services and field services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories:Project services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, interiors, planning, and similar services);Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which include a wide variety of services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology, and systems engineering and integration activities);Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct hire construction and construction management services); andOperations and Maintenance services (which include services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance).The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single responsibility, design build contracts, to services required in the post start up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services.The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2012 2011 2010Technical Professional Services revenues: Project Services $5,693,419 $5,070,575 $4,224,898Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 772,031 815,561 888,405Total Technical Professional Services revenues 6,465,450 5,886,136 5,113,303Field Services revenues: Construction 3,145,311 3,060,820 3,722,101Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 1,283,017 1,434,708 1,080,113Total Field Services revenues 4,428,328 4,495,528 4,802,214 $10,893,778 $10,381,664 $9,915,517Page36Table of ContentsWe focus our services on clients operating in select industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands): 2012 2011 2010Refining Downstream $2,379,750 $2,256,092 $2,876,059National Government Programs 2,272,611 2,313,240 2,314,548Chemicals and Polymers 1,704,723 1,461,125 1,203,373Infrastructure 1,085,649 1,219,633 938,978Buildings 843,938 893,528 869,248Oil & Gas Upstream 790,546 753,471 559,492Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 576,303 404,687 589,795Mining & Minerals 550,134 449,194 26,161Industrial and Other 690,124 630,694 537,863 $10,893,778 $10,381,664 $9,915,517We recorded net earnings of $379 million, or $2.94 per diluted share ($375 million, or $2.91 per diluted share excluding the pelletizing gain), for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, compared to $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.Revenues increased $512.1 million, or 4.9%, from $10.38 billion for fiscal 2011 to $10.89 billion for fiscal 2012.Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries increased $243.6 million, or 16.7%, from $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011 to $1.7 billion for fiscal 2012. The effect of shale gas projects and the low price of natural gas had an impact on the chemicals market in fiscal 2012. Because there is now a large source of feedstock available outside refineries which can grow independently of the refining infrastructure, we believe more projects are now economically viable and capital is being deployed to develop these opportunities. Furthermore, our clients are looking at various options to monetize natural gas.Revenues from clients operating in the Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology markets increased $171.6 million, or 42.4%, from $404.7 million for fiscal 2011 to $576.3 million for fiscal 2012. This increase was due primarily to a number of new and continuing projects, including projects relating to vaccine production facilities. Although we view this market as being steady, we see growth prospects in the areas of biotechnology based drug development in Europe and North America and for secondary manufacturing expansion in Asia and South America.Revenues from clients operating in the RefiningDownstream market increased $123.7 million, or 5.5%, from $2.26 billion for fiscal 2011 to $2.38 billion for fiscal 2012. The increase was due primarily to higher business volume principally within the Companys operations in the U.S. and Canada. We believe the level of profits realized by our refinery clients will help drive new capital projects, particularly as refiners assess possible changes in their crude slate and the need to revamp decades old facilities to meet changing demand and the continuing effects of recent environmental regulations. We believe the Refining Downstream market will remain strong in fiscal 2013.Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals market increased $100.9 million, or 22.5%, from $449.2 million for fiscal 2011 to $550.1 million for fiscal 2012. This increase is due primarily to the inclusion of the revenues of the Aker Entities for all of fiscal 2012, versus only a portion of fiscal 2011. The "Aker Entities" refer to certain businesses that were acquired in separate transactions that were completed in February and April 2011, and which are described in more detail in Note 3Business Combinations of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Although we see opportunities to grow this business in fiscal 2013, our clients in this market have been affected negatively by falling spot prices for iron ore, coking, and thermal coal and weaker commodity prices albeit these declines have occurred from prices that were generally high from a historical perspective. Further influencing this market is continued European banking instability, the weak U.S. recovery, and a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Despite this cooling market we believe that we are well positioned to capture additional market share during fiscal 2013, particularly in the area of small cap projects and maintenance driven work.Revenues from clients operating in the Oil and GasUpstream market increased $37.1 million, or 4.9%, from $753.5 million for fiscal 2011 to $790.5 million for fiscal 2012. The Canadian oil and gas business continues to improve. The Company anticipates this market to remain strong during fiscal 2013. Projections continue to show a strong oil price forecast Page37Table of Contentswhich should keep the market moving forward. We also anticipate an increase in our field services activities for clients in this market in fiscal 2013.National Government Programs revenues for fiscal 2012 remained relatively flat compared to fiscal 2011. We believe that uncertainties associated with sequestration (i.e., that mechanism within the Budget Control Act of 2011 that can trigger automatic U.S. government spending cuts in the event the U.S. Congress and the President fail to to agree on a budget by the end of calendar 2012) caused several agencies to slow the release of work in 2012. We believe the impact to the Company, if any, of sequestration, should it occur, will likely begin in late fiscal 2013. Nevertheless, certain recent changes in government contracting in the U.S. have helped to stabilize this area of our business and may continue to help stabilize it in the future. We have seen an increasing volume of work released by U.S. government agencies in the form of multiple award task order contracts ("MATOC"). These types of awards allow the Company to bid on, and participate in, more government sites than large, single award contracts. We believe our cost profile makes us very competitive for MATOC type awards. Revenues from clients operating in the Buildings market decreased $49.6 million, or 5.5%, from $893.5 million for fiscal 2011 to $844.0 million for fiscal 2012. In general, we see a shift in this industry group towards projects for clients in the private sector; driven by a continuing decline in government spending. Growth in the private sector business is coming from mission critical, education, healthcare, aviation, and corporate and commercial programs and projects. We anticipate continued growth in fiscal 2013.Direct costs of contracts increased $344.6 million, or 3.9%, from $8.82 billion during fiscal 2011 to $9.17 billion during fiscal 2012. Direct costs of contracts include all costs incurred in connection with and directly for the benefit of client contracts, including depreciation and amortization relating to assets used in connection with providing the services required by client projects. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as pass through costs). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well.Pass through costs increased $209.9 million, or 9.9%, from $2.12 billion during fiscal 2011 to $2.33 billion for fiscal 2012. In general, pass through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues however, decreased $67.2 million, or 1.5%, from $4.50 billion during fiscal 2011 to $4.43 billion during fiscal 2012. Pass through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business.As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 84.1% for fiscal 2012, compared to 85.0% for fiscal 2011. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to improved margins for our project services (margins relating to our field services were virtually unchanged). Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses for fiscal 2012 increased by $90.3 million, or 8.7%, to $1.13 billion, compared to $1.04 billion for fiscal 2011. These increases were due primarily to the SG&A expenses attributable to acquired businesses.Operating profit was $596.1 million for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2012, compared to $518.9 million, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.5% for fiscal 2012, compared to 5.0% in fiscal 2011. Improved margins for our Project Services contributed to this increase.Interest income during fiscal 2012 increased $1.1 million as compared to the prior year. Contributing to this Page38Table of Contentsincrease was higher average cash balances on deposit in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.Interest expense for fiscal 2012 increased $2.9 million, as compared to fiscal 2011. Interest expense in both fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. The increase is due primarily to the inclusion of interest expense associated with acquisition indebtedness for all of fiscal 2012, versus only a portion of fiscal 2011.The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 34.1% for fiscal 2012, compared to 35.1% in fiscal 2011. In general, the lower effective tax rate in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 is due to the changing geographical source of our earnings combined with an increase in the utilization of U.S. foreign tax credits. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the U.S., and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the U.S. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change.Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010The most significant event that affects the comparability of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 was the loss recorded last year in connection with the SIVOM Judgment.During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (the SIVOM Judgment). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Net of the effects of the charge on the Companys long term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share.Because of the unusual nature of the SIVOM Judgment, we include in certain places within this MD&A a discussion of the Companys consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 as it compares to fiscal 2010, both with and without the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. Although any fiscal 2010 information that excludes the effects of the SIVOM Judgment is non U.S. GAAP, it is presented because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Companys current financial performance and operating trends.The following table reconciles the Companys fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP to its fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment (in thousands, except earnings per share): Financial Statement Element Results asPresented(U.S. GAAP) Effects of theSIVOM Judgment Results Before theEffects of theSIVOM Judgment(non U.S. GAAP)Revenue $9,915,517 $(25,894) $9,941,411Direct costs of contracts $(8,582,912) $(58,641) $(8,524,271)Selling, general, and administrative expenses $(932,522) $6,363 $(938,885)Net interest income (expense) $(5,083) $(8,725) $3,642Earnings (loss) before taxes $391,934 $(86,897) $478,831Income tax (expense) benefit $(145,647) $26,620 $(172,267)Net earnings (loss) attributable to Jacobs $245,974 $(60,277) $306,251Diluted earnings (loss) per share $1.96 $(0.48) $2.44We recorded net earnings of $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, net earnings and earnings per share for fiscal 2010 were $306.3 million and $2.44, respectively.Revenues increased $466.1 million, or 4.7%, from $9.9 billion for fiscal 2010 to $10.4 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals markets increased significantly during fiscal 2011 due primarily to Page39Table of Contentsthe acquisition of the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients for Infrastructure projects increased $280.7 million, or 29.9%, from $939.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $1.2 billion for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were higher Project Services revenues for various transportation projects in the U.S. combined with revenues attributable to the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals & Polymers markets increased $257.8 million, or 21.4%, from $1.2 billion for fiscal 2010 to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Oil & Gas Upstream markets increased $194.0 million, or 34.7%, from $559.5 million for fiscal 2010 to $753.5 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were several large, EPC projects performed in North America.Direct costs of contracts increased $239.3 million, or 2.8%, from $8.6 billion during fiscal 2010 to $8.8 billion during fiscal 2011. Pass through costs decreased $604.8 million, or 22.2%, from $2.7 billion during fiscal 2010 to $2.1 billion for fiscal 2011. Field services revenues decreased $306.7 million, or 6.4%, from $4.8 billion during fiscal 2010 to $4.5 billion during fiscal 2011. As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 86.6% for fiscal 2010. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass through costs.SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 increased by $108.1 million, or 11.6%, to $1.04 billion, compared to $932.5 million for fiscal 2010. The Aker Entities contributed $113.0 million (inclusive of due diligence and integration costs) of SG&A expenses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Excluding the SG&A expenses of the Aker Entities, SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.9 million compared to fiscal 2010. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2011 was due primarily to managements efforts to reduce SG&A expenses.Operating profit was $518.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $400.1 million ($478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 4.0% in fiscal 2010 (4.8%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment).Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2011, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments remained low in fiscal 2011.Interest expense for fiscal 2011 decreased $1.1 million, as compared to fiscal 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2011 increased $8.8 million as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Interest expense in fiscal 2010 included the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over a number of years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully.The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate was 35.1% for fiscal 2011, compared to 37.2% in fiscal 2010. The tax rate in fiscal 2011 decreased from fiscal 2010 due to a change in the mix of international work and the successful resolution of a U.S. domestic tax issue. Page40Table of ContentsContractual ObligationsThe following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of September 28, 2012 (in thousands): Payments Due by Fiscal Period Total 1 Yearor Less 2 3Years 4 5Years More than 5YearsDebt obligations $528,260 $ $ $528,260 $Operating leases (a) 871,857 153,328 285,176 168,636 264,717Obligations under defined benefit pension plans (b) 474,555 63,065 133,799 144,717 132,974Obligations under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (c) 105,806 6,100 12,941 13,997 72,768Purchase obligations (d) 1,123,389 1,123,389 Interest (e) 26,201 5,822 11,645 8,734 Total $3,130,068 $1,351,704 $443,561 $864,344 $470,459 (a)Assumes the Company will make the end of lease term residual value guarantee payment of $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of an office building in Houston, Texas. Please refer to Note 10Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K.(b)Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2013, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of September 28, 2012. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements.(c)Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2012, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of September 28, 2012.(d)Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of September 28, 2012; primarily accounts payable and accrued payroll.(e)Determined based on borrowings outstanding at the end of fiscal 2012 using the interest rates in effect at that time and concluding with the expiration date of the 2012 Facility.BacklogBacklog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods.The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions): 2012 2011 2010Technical professional services $10,266.5 $9,100.1 $7,588.9Field services 5,643.2 5,189.7 5,613.1Total $15,909.7 $14,289.8 $13,202.0The entire value of contract awards are added to backlog when the contracts are awarded to us. Accordingly, backlog can fluctuate from one reporting period to the next due to the timing of when new contracts are added to backlog and when the contract revenue is recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years). Our backlog at September 28, 2012 increased by$1.6 billion, or 11.3%, to $15.9 billion from $14.3 billion at September 30, 2011. The increase in backlog from September 30, 2011 to September 28, 2012 was due primarily to new awards from clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers, Oil & GasUpstream, and Mining and Minerals industries and markets.Page41Table of ContentsIn accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2012.While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $3.6 billion (or 22.9% of total backlog), $3.6 billion (or 24.9% of total backlog), and $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog) at September 28, 2012, September 30, 2011, and October 1, 2010, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts).Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1ARisk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $8.6 billion, or 54.0%, of total backlog at September 28, 2012 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year.Effects of InflationThe effects of inflation on our business is discussed in Item 1ARisk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesAt September 28, 2012, our primary sources of liquidity consisted of $1.03 billion of cash and cash equivalents, and $664.6 million of available borrowing capacity under our $1.21 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. We finance as much of our operations and growth as possible through cash generated by our operations.During fiscal 2012, our cash and cash equivalents increased by $126.8 million from $905.6 million at September 30, 2011 to $1.03 billion at September 28, 2012. This compares to a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $33.2 million during the corresponding period last year. During fiscal 2012, our operating activities contributed $299.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and the effects of exchange rate changes added another $10.9 million. These increases in cash flows were offset in part by net cash uses of $181.1 million for investing activities and $2.7 million for financing activities. Operations provided net cash of $299.8 million during fiscal 2012. This compares to net cash inflows of $236.5 million and $223.6 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $63.3 million increase in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due primarily to a $55.7 million increase in net earnings attributable to the Group and a $22.9 million favorable change in the Companys working capital accounts, offset in part by a $16.9 million change relating to deferred income taxes.Because such a high percentage of our revenues are earned on cost plus type contracts, and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Companys working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Accounts receivable consist of billings to our clients a substantial portion of which is for project related costs. Billings in excess of cost consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred.This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique to our industry, and facilitates review of our liquidity at the total working capital level. The changes in cash flows relating to our working capital accounts were due simply to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts and is not indicative of any known trend or fundamental change to the underlying business. There were only minor changes within the components of our working capital accounts during fiscal 2012 when compared to fiscal 2011. We still continue to experience delays in certain payments and have seen an increase in the length of payment terms with certain customers. We believe that this situation does not present a significant risk to the Companys cash flows. We believe the risk of not collecting substantially all of the Companys outstanding receivables is remote. Though the Company provides services in a number of countries outside the U.S., we believe our credit risk is not significant. Our private sector customers are comprised principally of large, well Page42Table of Contentsknown, and well established multi national companies. Our government customers are comprised of national, state, and local agencies located principally in the U.S. and the U.K. We have not historically experienced significant collection issues with either of our governmental or non governmental customers. Furthermore, our largest government customer in the U.K. provides advance payments to the Company. We used $181.1 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2012. This compares to $801.8 million and $398.5 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $620.7 million decrease in cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due to to a decline in merger and acquisition activity.Additions to property and equipment totaled $102.6 million, $98.7 million, and $49.1 million for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Included in fiscal 2012 activity are significant expenditures for system software and hardware upgrades (relating principally to the businesses we recently acquired) and leasehold improvements (relating primarily to the consolidation of certain office space in one major market in the U.S., and the expansion of office space in several locations in the U.S. and overseas). Included in the fiscal 2011 activity was a $49.1 million addition to property plant and equipment related to the purchase of an office building we use in our operations and the associated equipment and furniture. Our financing activities resulted in net cash outflows of $2.7 million during fiscal 2012. This compares to net cash inflows of $556.9 million and $93.1 million during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $559.7 million net decrease in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the overall higher level of borrowing activity that occurred last year in support of the Companys merger and acquisition activity. The Company had $1.03 billion of cash and short term equivalents at September 28, 2012. Of this amount, approximately $779.5 million was held in the U.S. and $253.0 million was held outside of the U.S., primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Eurozone, and Australia. Other than the tax cost of repatriating funds held outside the U.S. to the U.S. (see Note 9Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K), there are no impediments to repatriating these funds to the U.S.On March 29, 2012, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $1.21 billion unsecured, revolving credit facility (the "2012 Facility") with a syndicate of large, U.S. domestic and international banks and financial institutions. The 2012 Facility replaces and refinances the Companys previous revolving credit facility originally entered into by the Company on December 15, 2005 (the "2005 Facility"). Effective with the closing of the 2012 Facility, all commitments under the 2005 Facility were terminated and were refinanced under the 2012 Facility. The total amount utilized under the 2012 Facility at September 28, 2012 was $540.4 million ($528.3 million in the form of direct borrowings and $12.1 million utilized in the form of letters of credit). The 2012 Facility has a five year maturity. Please refer to Note 6Borrowings of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information regarding the 2012 Facility.We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations, support our acquisition strategy, and service our debt for the next twelve months. We had $1.03 billion in cash and cash equivalents at September 28, 2012, compared to $905.6 million at September 30, 2011. Our consolidated working capital position at September 28, 2012 was $1.87 billion; an increase of $853.5 million from September 30, 2011. Contributing to this increase in working capital in fiscal 2012 was the refinancing of $566.0 million of short term debt under the the 2012 Facility.Additionally, there was $664.6 million of borrowing capacity available at September 28, 2012 under the 2012 Facility. We believe that the remaining capacity, terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, combined with cash on hand and the other committed and uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements.The Company had $224.9 million of letters of credit outstanding at September 28, 2012. Of this amount, $12.1 million had been issued under the 2012 Facility and $212.7 million were issued under separate, committed and uncommitted letter of credit facilities.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe are party to financial instruments with off balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Page43Table of ContentsNew Accounting PronouncementsIn July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2012 02Testing Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment. ASU 2012 02 amends Topic 350 of the FASBs Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") regarding how entities test indefinite lived intangible assets other than goodwill for possible impairment. ASU 2012 02 permits entities first to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite lived intangible asset is impaired as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test pursuant to ASC Subtopic 350 30. If the entity determines that is is more likely than not that such asset is not impaired based on its qualitative assessment, no further testing is required. The amendments in ASU 2012 02 are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2012 02 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.In December 2011, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2011 12Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 05. ASU 2011 12 amends Topic 220 of the ASC as that Topic was affected by ASU 2011 05. ASU 2011 05 required entities to, among other things, present reclassification adjustments and the effect of such adjustment on the face of the financial statements where net earnings is presented, by component of net earnings, and on the face of the financial statements where other comprehensive income is presented, by component of other comprehensive income. The effect of ASU 2011 12 is to defer the effective date of certain of the presentation requirements of ASU 2011 05 in order to give the FASB more time to deliberate such requirements. The amendments in ASU 2011 12 are effective at the same time as the amendments in ASU 2011 05 so that entities will not be required to comply with the presentation requirements in Update 2011 05 that ASU 2012 12 is deferring.Also in December 2011, the FASB adopted ASU No. 2011 11Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities. ASU 2011 11 amends Topic 210 of the ASC and requires entities to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of their financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on their respective financial positions. The scope of this ASU includes derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements, reverse sale and repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending agreements. Entities are required to apply the provisions of ASU 2011 11 for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2011 11 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 08Intangibles Goodwill and Other. ASU 2011 08 amends Topic 350 of the ASC and simplifies how entities test goodwill for possible impairment. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two step goodwill impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. ASU 2011 08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company does not believe that the adoption of ASU 2011 08 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 05Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011 05 amends Topic 220 of the ASC and provides that an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. The provisions of ASU 2011 05 will be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011 05, if any, on its consolidated financial statements. Page44Table of ContentsItem 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates.Interest Rate RiskPlease refer to the discussion of the Companys 2012 Facility in the liquidity and capital resources discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Foreign Currency RiskIn situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC 815 10 in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations.
 
