FILE:SO/SO-8K-20060727102725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Washington, D. C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
         
July 27, 2006
 
 
 
The addresses of the registrants have not changed since the last report.
 
This combined Form 8-K is furnished separately by six registrants: The Southern Company, Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Power Company. Information contained herein relating to each registrant is furnished by each registrant solely on its own behalf. Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to the other registrants.
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, such information, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On July 27, 2006, The Southern Company ("Southern Company") issued a press release regarding its earnings for the periods ended June 30, 2006. A copy of this release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. In addition, certain additional information regarding the financial results for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006 is being furnished as Exhibits 99.02 through 99.06 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In Exhibits 99.01 and 99.05 attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, Southern Company, in addition to presenting kilowatt-hour sales information for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2005, as reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), has also provided adjusted kilowatt-hour sales information for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2005. In 2005, certain Georgia Power Company industrial customers were reclassified from industrial to commercial to be consistent with the rate structure approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission. The adjusted kilowatt-hour sales information reclassifies 2005 kilowatt-hour sales for commercial and industrial customers to be consistent with the presentation for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006. Southern Company believes that the adjusted kilowatt-hour sales information is useful to investors because it provides investors with more consistent information for purposes of comparing 2005 and 2006 kilowatt-hour sales performance. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Exhibits 99.01, 99.02 and 99.03 attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, in addition to including earnings and earnings per share in accordance with GAAP for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005, also include earnings and earnings per share for such periods excluding the results of Southern Company's synthetic fuel investments. As a result of tax credits generated from synthetic fuel production, Southern Company's synthetic fuel investments contributed significantly to Southern Company's earnings and earnings per share for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2005. Due to higher levels of oil prices, such tax credits are expected to be partially or completely phased out during 2006. As a result, Southern Company's synthetic fuel investments did not contribute significantly to earnings and earnings per share for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006 and are not expected to contribute significantly to earnings and earnings per share in future periods.
 
- 1 -
 
 
 
Accordingly, Southern Company believes the presentation of earnings and earnings per share excluding the results of the synthetic fuel investments is useful for investors because it provides investors with additional information for purposes of comparing Southern Company's performance for such periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
Certain information contained in this Form 8-K and the Exhibits attached hereto is forward-looking information based on current expectations and plans that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking information includes, among other things, statements concerning results of operations, synthetic fuels earnings, customer and economic growth and Southern Company's strategies. Southern Company and its subsidiaries caution that there are certain factors that can cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information that has been provided. The reader is cautioned not to put undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which is not a guarantee of future performance and is subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Southern Company and its subsidiaries; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such suggested results will be realized. The following factors, in addition to those discussed in Southern Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, and subsequent securities filings, could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking information: the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility industry and implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, and also changes in environmental, tax and other laws and regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, including proposed legislation relating to tax credits associated with synthetic fuels investments (and the timing of adoption of any such legislation), as well as changes in application of existing laws and regulations; fluctuations in the level of oil prices; the level of production, if any, by the synthetic fuels operations at Carbontronics Synfuels Investors LP and Alabama Fuel Products LLC for the remainder of fiscal year 2006; current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries, including the pending EPA civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, FERC matters, IRS audits and Mirant-related matters; the effects, extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which Southern Company's subsidiaries operate; variations in demand for electricity and gas, including those relating to weather, the general economy and population and business growth (and declines); available sources and costs of fuels; ability to control costs; investment performance of Southern Company's employee benefit plans; advances in technology; state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its subsidiaries; the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as and when due; the ability to obtain new short- and
 
- 2 -
 
 
 
long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; the direct or indirect effect on the business of Southern Company and its subsidiaries resulting from terrorist incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents; interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts, including Southern Company's and its subsidiaries' credit ratings; the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes or other similar occurrences; the direct or indirect effects on Southern Company's business resulting from incidents similar to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; and the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies. Southern Company and its subsidiaries expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information.
 
Exhibits
 
The exhibits hereto contain business segment information for Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Power Company. Accordingly, this report is also being furnished on behalf of each such registrant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
News
 
 
 
 
July 27, 2006
 
Warm weather, continued customer growth drive solid earnings
performance in second quarter for Southern Company
 
ATLANTA  Southern Company reported second quarter earnings of $385.2 million, or 52 cents a share, as above normal temperatures and continued customer growth in the Southeast drove increased electricity usage.
 
The earnings compared with $386.8 million, or 52 cents a share, in the second quarter of 2005.
 
For the six months ended June 30, Southern Company's earnings were $646.8 million, or 87 cents a share, compared with $709.8 million, or 95 cents a share, for the same period a year ago.
 
The positive earnings drivers in the second quarter were offset in part by higher operations and maintenance expenses associated with increased customer demand, and the negative impact of rising oil prices on Southern Company's synthetic fuels investments.
 
Southern Company has taken a series of actions to reduce its earnings exposure related to synthetic fuels. The company expects to report slightly positive earnings from its synthetic fuels investments for the full year.
 
Excluding Southern Company's investments in synthetic fuels, second quarter earnings were 53 cents a share, compared to 49 cents a share for the second quarter of 2005, and earnings for the first six months of 2006 were 87 cents a share, compared with 89 cents a share for the same period in 2005.
 
The economy in the Southeast continued to grow during the second quarter. The number of customers served by Southern Company grew 1.3 percent above a year ago.
 
 
 
 
Chairman, President and CEO David M. Ratcliffe said the company continues to perform well overall and is meeting its financial, operational and customer satisfaction targets.
 
"We remain focused on executing our strategy of providing our customers with reliable, affordable energy and outstanding service, and rewarding our investors. The execution of our business plans, along with a strong economy in the Southeast, contributed to our solid performance despite rising oil prices and increases in operations and maintenance costs," said Ratcliffe.
 
Total revenues for the second quarter were $3.59 billion compared with $3.12 billion in the second quarter of 2005, a 15.1 percent increase. For the first six months of the year, revenues totaled $6.65 billion, compared with $5.91 billion in the same period a year ago, an increase of 12.7 percent.
 
In the second quarter, kilowatt-hour sales to retail customers in Southern Company's four-state service area increased 4.6 percent compared with sales during the 2005 second quarter. Boosted by warm weather, residential electricity sales increased 10.7 percent. In 2005, primarily in the first six months of the year, some Georgia Power industrial customers were reclassified from the industrial class to the commercial class to be consistent with the rate structure approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission. Adjusting the 2005 numbers for comparison purposes, Southern Company's electricity sales to commercial customers  offices, stores and other non-manufacturing firms  increased 3.9 percent and industrial energy sales increased 0.5 percent. As reported, without adjusting the 2005 kilowatt-hour sales, commercial sales increased 4.4 percent and industrial sales were unchanged. Total sales of electricity to Southern Company's customers in the Southeast, including wholesale sales, increased 5.2 percent compared with the second quarter last year.
 
In conjunction with this earnings announcement, Southern Company has posted on its Web site a package of detailed financial information on its second quarter performance. These materials are available at 7:30 a.m. EDT July 27 at www.southerncompany.com.
 
Southern Company's financial analysts' call will be at 1 p.m. EDT July 27, at which time Ratcliffe and Chief Financial Officer Tom Fanning will discuss earnings and earnings guidance as well as provide a general business update. Investors, media and the public may listen to a live Webcast of the call at www.southerncompany.com. A replay of the Webcast will be available at the site for 12 months.
 
With 4.3 million customers and more than 40,000 megawatts of generating capacity, Atlanta-based Southern Company (NYSE: SO) is the premier energy company serving the Southeast, one of America's fastest-growing regions. A leading U.S. producer of electricity, Southern Company owns electric utilities in four states and a growing competitive generation company, as well as fiber optics and wireless communications. Southern Company brands are known for excellent customer service, high reliability and retail electric prices that are significantly below the national average. Southern Company has received the highest ranking in customer satisfaction among U.S. electric service providers for seven consecutive years by the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI). Visit our Web site at
www.southerncompany.com
.
 
 
 
 
Forward Looking Statements Note:
Certain information contained in this release is forward-looking information based on current expectations and plans that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking information includes, among other things, statements concerning results of operations, synthetic fuels earnings, customer and economic growth and Southern Company's strategies. Southern Company cautions that there are certain factors that can cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information that has been provided. The reader is cautioned not to put undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which is not a guarantee of future performance and is subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Southern Company; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such suggested results will be realized. The following factors, in addition to those discussed in Southern Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, and subsequent securities filings, could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking information: the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility industry and implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, and also changes in environmental, tax and other laws and regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, including proposed legislation relating to tax credits associated with synthetic fuels investments (and the timing of adoption of any such legislation), as well as changes in application of existing laws and regulations; fluctuations in the level of oil prices; the level of production, if any, by the synthetic fuels operations at Carbontronics Synfuels Investors LP and Alabama Fuel Products LLC for the remainder of fiscal year 2006; current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries, including the pending EPA civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, FERC matters, IRS audits and Mirant-related matters; the effects, extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which Southern Company's subsidiaries operate; variations in demand for electricity and gas, including those relating to weather, the general economy and population and business growth (and declines); available sources and costs of fuels; ability to control costs; investment performance of Southern Company's employee benefit plans; advances in technology; state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its subsidiaries; the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as and when due; the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; the direct or indirect effect on Southern Company's business resulting from terrorist incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents; interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts, including Southern Company's and its subsidiaries' credit ratings; the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes or other similar occurrences; the direct or indirect effects on Southern Company's business resulting from incidents similar to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; and the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies. Southern Company and its subsidiaries expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information.
 
###
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.02 Southern Company Financial Highlights (In Millions of Dollars Except Earnings Per Share) Notes - ----- - - Southern Company GAS completed the sale of substantially all of its assets on January 4, 2006 and is included in consolidated earnings in all periods as discontinued operations. - - For the second quarter and year-to-date 2006, diluted earnings per share are not more than 1 cent for any period reported above and are not material. - - As a result of tax credits generated from synthetic fuel production, Southern Company's synthetic fuel investments contributed significantly to Southern Company's earnings and earnings per share for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2005. Due to higher levels of oil prices, such tax credits are expected to be partially or completely phased out in 2006. - - Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. - - Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments and certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.

EXHIBIT 99.03 Southern Company Significant Factors Impacting EPS Notes - ----- - - Southern Company GAS completed the sale of substantially all of its assets on January 4, 2006 and is included in consolidated earnings in all periods as discontinued operations. - - As a result of tax credits generated from synthetic fuel production, Southern Company's synthetic fuel investments contributed significantly to Southern Company's earnings and earnings per share for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2005. Due to higher levels of oil prices, such tax credits are expected to be partially or completely phased out in 2006. - - Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. - - Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments and certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.

EXHIBIT 99.04 Southern Company Analysis of Consolidated Earnings (In Millions of Dollars) Notes - ----- - - Southern Company GAS completed the sale of substantially all of its assets on January 4, 2006 and is included in consolidated earnings in all periods as discontinued operations. - - Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. - - Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments and certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.

EXHIBIT 99.05 Southern Company Kilowatt-Hour Sales (In Millions of KWHs) Notes - ----- - - In 2005, some Georgia Power industrial customers were reclassified from industrial to commercial to be consistent with the rate structure approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission. For presentation purposes, the "As Adjusted" chart reclassifies the second quarter and year-to-date 2005 KWHs for commercial and industrial customers to be consistent with the 2006 presentation. - - Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. - - Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments and certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.

EXHIBIT 99.06 Southern Company Financial Overview (In Millions of Dollars) Notes - ----- - - Southern Company GAS completed the sale of substantially all of its assets on January 4, 2006 and is included in consolidated earnings in all periods as discontinued operations. - - Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. - - Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments and certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.


