FILE:SO/SO-8K-20060628093053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Washington, D. C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
         
June 27, 2006
 
 
 
The address of the registrant has not changed since the last report.
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  "Income Tax Matters  Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits" of The Southern Company ("Southern") in Item 7 of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  "Income Tax Matters  Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits" of Southern and Note (J) to the financial statements of Southern in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. Southern has taken several actions in connection with its investments in two entities that produce synthetic fuels (Carbontronics Synfuels Investors, LP ("Carbontronics") and Alabama Fuel Products, LLC ("AFP")). Carbontronics idled its production of synthetic fuel in May 2006. In addition, Southern entered into an agreement to terminate its ownership interest in AFP effective July 1, 2006; however, Southern will continue to provide fee-based services to AFP's plants.
The decision to idle synthetic fuel production at Carbontronics and to terminate Southern's interest in AFP was due to the continued uncertainty regarding the value of tax credits associated with the synthetic fuel investments. In accordance with Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, synthetic fuel tax credits are subject to limitation and phase-out as the annual average price of oil (as determined by the Department of Energy) increases over a specified, inflation-adjusted dollar amount published in the spring of each subsequent year.
In addition to idling production at Carbontronics and terminating the interest in AFP, Southern has executed a series of financial hedges to mitigate the risk of changes in the value of tax credits related to Southern's synthetic fuel investments.
 
 
 
 
 
As a result of these actions, Southern continues to evaluate its synthetic fuel investments for potential impairment. At March 31, 2006, Southern's synthetic fuel investments totaled approximately $16.9 million.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


