FILE:SO/SO-8K-20071025090613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Washington, D. C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
         
October 25, 2007
 
 
 
The addresses of the registrants have not changed since the last report.
 
This combined Form 8-K is furnished separately by six registrants: The Southern Company, Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Power Company. Information contained herein relating to each registrant is furnished by each registrant solely on its own behalf. Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to the other registrants.
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, such information, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On October 25, 2007, The Southern Company ("Southern Company") issued a press release regarding its earnings for the periods ended September 30, 2007. A copy of this release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. In addition, certain additional information regarding the financial results for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2007 is being furnished as Exhibits 99.02 through 99.06 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Exhibits 99.01, 99.02 and 99.03 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, in addition to including earnings and earnings per share in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and September 30, 2006, also include earnings and earnings per share for such periods excluding the results of Southern Company's synthetic fuel investments. Southern Company's synthetic fuel investments generate tax credits as a result of synthetic fuel production. These tax credits will no longer be available after December 31, 2007. Southern Company management uses earnings per share, excluding synthetic fuel earnings, to evaluate the performance of Southern Company's ongoing business activities. Southern Company believes the presentation of earnings and earnings per share excluding the results of the synthetic fuel investments also is useful for investors because it provides investors with additional information for purposes of comparing Southern Company's performance for such periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Exhibits
 
The exhibits hereto contain business segment information for Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Power Company. Accordingly, this report is also being furnished on behalf of each such registrant.
 
- 1 -
 
 
 
 
The following exhibits relate to the periods ended September 30, 2007:
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
News
 
 
 
 
 
Investor Relations Contact:
 
Oct. 25, 2007
 
Southern Company reports steady third quarter earnings
Impact of customer growth, warm weather offset by increased expenses
 
Southern Company reported third quarter earnings of $762.0 million, or $1.00 a share. The earnings compared with $738.0 million, or 99 cents a share, in the third quarter of 2006.
 
Earnings for the first nine months of 2007 were $1.53 billion, or $2.03 a share, compared with $1.38 billion, or $1.86 a share, for the same period a year ago.
 
Excluding the impact of synthetic fuel investments, third quarter earnings per share were 99 cents, compared with 99 cents in the third quarter of 2006, and earnings for the first nine months of 2007 were $1.96 a share, compared with $1.86 a share for the same period in 2006.
 
Chairman, President and CEO David M. Ratcliffe said the company continued to achieve superior operational performance during a challenging summer season.
 
"Operationally, we've had an extraordinary year. The hard work of our employees enabled us to meet unprecedented demand as we set five successive peak records while in the midst of an extreme drought," Ratcliffe said. "Our business units continue to perform well -- operating at historically high levels of reliability, achieving industry-leading customer satisfaction levels and continuing to offer retail prices more than 17 percent below the national average."
 
 
 
 
 
 
The number of customers served by Southern Company grew 1.5 percent in the third quarter. The Southeast continues to attract new residents and experience economic growth despite a slowdown in the national economy. The unemployment rate in the Southeast is 4.2 percent, compared with the nation's 4.6 percent. Personal income growth continues to be strong in the third quarter, at 4.6 percent in the Southeast compared with the nation's 3.6 percent growth rate.
 
The positive earnings drivers in the third quarter also include state regulatory actions and positive margins from commercial and industrial market-based rates. The drivers were offset in part by higher operations and maintenance expenses, higher interest expense, and asset depreciation primarily associated with increased investment in environmental equipment and transmission and distribution related to maintaining reliability in the growing Southeast.
 
Total revenues for the third quarter were $4.83 billion compared with $4.55 billion in the third quarter of 2006, a 6.2 percent increase. For the first nine months of the year, revenues totaled $12.01 billion, compared with $11.20 billion in the same period a year ago, an increase of 7.2 percent.
 
In the third quarter, kilowatt-hour sales to retail customers in Southern Company's four-state service area increased 1.2 percent compared with sales during the 2006 third quarter. Residential electricity sales increased 1.5 percent. Commercial sales increased 2.8 percent and industrial sales declined 1.0 percent.
 
Total sales of electricity to Southern Company's customers in the Southeast, including wholesale sales, increased 1.6 percent compared with the third quarter last year.
 
With 4.3 million customers and more than 42,000 megawatts of generating capacity, Atlanta-based Southern Company (NYSE: SO) is the premier energy company serving the Southeast, one of America's fastest-growing regions. A leading U.S. producer of electricity, Southern Company owns electric utilities in four states and a growing competitive generation company, as well as fiber optics and wireless communications. Southern Company brands are known for excellent customer service, high reliability and retail electric prices that are significantly below the national average. Southern Company has been listed the top ranking U.S. electric service provider in customer satisfaction for eight consecutive years by the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI). Visit our Web site at www.southerncompany.com.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
Certain information contained in this release is forward-looking information based on current expectations and plans that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking information includes, among other things, statements concerning results of operations, customer and economic growth and Southern Company's strategies. Southern Company cautions that there are certain factors that can cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information that has been provided. The reader is cautioned not to put undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which is not a guarantee of future performance and is subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Southern
 
 
 
 
Company; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such suggested results will be realized. The following factors, in addition to those discussed in Southern Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006, and subsequent securities filings, could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking information: the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility industry and implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including regulation of emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot or particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other laws and regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, as well as changes in application of existing laws and regulations; current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries, including the pending EPA civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, FERC matters, IRS audits and Mirant-related matters; the effects, extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which Southern Company's subsidiaries operate; variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general economy, population and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy conservation measures; available sources and costs of fuels; ability to control costs; investment performance of Southern Company's employee benefit plans; advances in technology; state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; fluctuations in the level of oil prices; the level of production by the synthetic fuel operations at Carbontronics Synfuels Investors LP and Alabama Fuel Products LLC for the remainder of fiscal year 2007; internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its subsidiaries; the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as and when due; the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; the direct or indirect effect on Southern Company's business resulting from terrorist incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents; interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts, including Southern Company's and its subsidiaries' credit ratings; the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, droughts, pandemic health events such as an avian influenza or other similar occurrences; the direct or indirect effects on Southern Company's business resulting from incidents similar to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; and the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies. Southern Company and its subsidiaries expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information.
 
# # #
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.02 Southern Company Financial Highlights (In Millions of Dollars Except Earnings Per Share) Notes - ----- - -For the third quarter and year-to-date 2007, diluted earnings per share was not more than 1 cent per share. - -Tax credits associated with Southern Company's synthetic fuel investments expire December 31, 2007 and will not contribute to Southern Company's earnings and earnings per share after 2007. - -Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. - -Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments. Certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.

EXHIBIT 99.03 Southern Company Significant Factors Impacting EPS Notes - ----- - - For the third quarter and year-to-date 2007, diluted earnings per share was not more than 1 cent per share. - - Tax credits associated with Southern Company's synthetic fuel investments expire December 31, 2007 and will not contribute to Southern Company's earnings and earnings per share after 2007. - - Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. - - Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments. Certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.

EXHIBIT 99.04 Southern Company Analysis of Consolidated Earnings (In Millions of Dollars) Notes - ----- - - Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. - - Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments and certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.

EXHIBIT 99.05 Southern Company Kilowatt-Hour Sales (In Millions of KWHs) Notes - ----- - - Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. - - Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments and certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.

EXHIBIT 99.06 Southern Company Financial Overview (In Millions of Dollars) Notes - ----- - - Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. - - Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments and certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.


