FILE:SO/SO-8K-20101119171915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) 
November 19, 2010
 
The names and addresses of the registrants have not changed since the last report.
 
This combined Form 8-K is filed separately by two registrants: The Southern Company and Georgia Power Company.  Information contained herein relating to each registrant is filed by each registrant solely on its own behalf.  Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to the other registrant.
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
See MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  State PSC Matters  Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters  Rate Plans of The Southern Company (Southern Company), MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  Georgia PSC Matters  Rate Plans of Georgia Power Company (Georgia Power) and Note (B) under State PSC Matters  Georgia Power  Rate Plans to the Condensed Financial Statements of Southern Company and Georgia Power in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 for information regarding Georgia Powers retail base rate proceeding with the Georgia Public Service Commission (the Georgia PSC).  For additional information, see MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  PSC Matters  Georgia Power of Southern Company and MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  PSC Matters  Rate Plans of Georgia Power in Item 7 and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Georgia Power under Retail Regulatory Matters  Georgia Power  Retail Rate Plans and Retail Regulatory Matters  Rate Plans, respectively, in Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.
On November 19, 2010, Georgia Power filed its rebuttal testimony with the Georgia PSC in connection with its base rate case.  The rebuttal testimony includes a settlement agreement (the Settlement Agreement) among Georgia Power, the Georgia Public Service Commissions Public Interest Advocacy Staff (the Staff), and the Commercial Group (the Stipulating Parties) implementing an Alternate Rate Plan effective January 1, 2011 and continuing through December 31, 2013 (the 2010 ARP).  Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, effective January 1, 2011, Georgia Power would (1) increase its traditional base tariff rates by approximately $347.2 million; (2) collect an additional $31.6 million through its Demand-Side Management (DSM) tariffs; (3) collect an additional $167.8 million through its Environmental Compliance Cost Recovery (ECCR) tariff; and (4) collect an additional 2.16% of the Companys total revenues (or $15.7 million), through the Municipal Franchise Fee (MFF) tariff, for a total increase in base revenues of approximately $562.3 million.  The estimated impact of the Settlement Agreement to the typical residential customer would be an increase of approximately $10.76 per month effective January 1, 2011.
Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, no separate Certified Capacity Cost Recovery tariff would be created.  However, the following additional rate adjustments would be made to Georgia Powers tariffs in 2012 and 2013:
Georgia Power currently estimates these adjustments would result in base revenue increases of approximately $189.7 million in 2012 and $92.6 million in 2013, representing increases of approximately $3.08 per month and $1.48 per month for the typical residential customer in 2012 and 2013, respectively.
Under the Settlement Agreement, Georgia Powers retail return on common equity (ROE) would be set at 11.15%, and earnings would be evaluated against a retail ROE range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any earnings above 12.25% would be directly refunded to customers, with the remaining one-third retained by Georgia Power.  There would be no recovery of any earnings shortfall below 10.25% on an actual basis and no separate Adjustable Cost Recovery tariff would be created.  However, if at any time during the term of the 2010 ARP, Georgia Power projects that its retail earnings will be below 10.25% for any calendar year, it may petition the Georgia PSC for the implementation of an Interim Cost Recovery (ICR) tariff that wo uld be used to adjust Georgia Powers earnings back to a 10.25% ROE.  The Georgia PSC would have 90 days to rule on Georgia Powers request.  The ICR tariff would expire at the earlier of January 1, 2014 or the end of the calendar year in which the ICR tariff becomes effective.  In lieu of requesting implementation of an ICR tariff, or if the Georgia PSC chooses not to implement the ICR, Georgia Power may file a full rate case.
While the Stipulating Parties are seeking support of the Settlement Agreement from all parties in the matter, Georgia Powers retail base rate proceeding will continue on its current schedule.  Hearings on the rebuttal testimony of Georgia Power are scheduled to begin December 1, 2010, with a vote by the Georgia PSC scheduled for December 21, 2010.  Any agreement with respect to Georgia Powers retail base rate proceeding must be approved by the Georgia PSC. Accordingly, the terms of the Settlement Agreement are subject to change and the terms of any final agreement approved by the Georgia PSC may differ materially from the terms of the Settlement Agreement.  The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


