FILE:SO/SO-8K-20101027085637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)                                                            
October 27, 2010
The names and addresses of the registrants have not changed since the last report.
 
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is furnished separately by six registrants: The Southern Company, Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Power Company.  Information contained herein relating to each registrant is furnished by each registrant solely on its own behalf.  Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to the other registrants.
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section.  Furthermore, such information, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On October 27, 2010, The Southern Company (Southern Company) issued a press release regarding its earnings for the periods ended September 30, 2010.  A copy of this release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  In addition, certain additional information regarding the financial results for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2010 is being furnished as Exhibits 99.02 through 99.07 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Exhibits 99.01, 99.02 and 99.03 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, in addition to including earnings and earnings per share in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, also include earnings and earnings per share for such period excluding the charge related to a settlement agreement with MC Asset Recovery, LLC (MCAR) to resolve litigation arising out of the 2003 bankruptcy of Mirant Corporation (Mirant), a Southern Company subsidiary until its April 2001 spin-off.  The charge related to the settlement agreement with MCAR significantly impacted the presentation of earnings and earnings per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, and significant charges related to the Mirant spin-off are not expected to occur in the future.  Accordingly, Southern Company believes the presentation of earnings and earnings per share excluding the charge related to the MCAR settlement agreement is useful to investors because it provides investors with additional information to evaluate the performance of Southern Companys ongoing business activities.  Southern Company management also uses earnings and earnings per share excluding the charge related to the settlement agreement with MCAR to evaluate the performance of Southern Companys ongoing business activities.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The exhibits hereto contain business segment information for Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Power Company.  Accordingly, this report is also being furnished on behalf of each such registrant.
The following exhibits relate to the periods ended September 30, 2010:
 
- 1 -
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
- 2 -
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
 
 
                     Tripp Cagle
Media Contact:
404-506-5333 or 1-866-506-5333
media@southerncompany.com
www.southerncompany.com
:
Investor Relations Contact
Glen Kundert
404-506-5135
gakunder2@souther
n
co.com
 
 Oct.  27, 2010
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
 
ATLANTA  Southern Company (NYSE: SO) today reported third quarter earnings of $817.2 million, or 98 cents a share, compared with $790.0 million, or 99 cents a share, for the same period a year ago.
For the nine months ended Sept. 30, Southern Companys earnings were $1.82 billion, or $2.20 a share, compared with $1.39 billion, or $1.77 a share, for the same period a year ago.
Earnings for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2009, included a charge of 25 cents a share, or $202 million, related to a settlement agreement with MC Asset Recovery LLC to resolve a lawsuit arising out of the 2003 bankruptcy of Mirant Corp., a Southern Company subsidiary until its 2001 spin-off.  Excluding the impact of the 2009 settlement, Southern Company earned $2.20 a share for the first nine months of 2010, compared with $2.02 a share for the same period in 2009.
Revenues for the third quarter were $5.32 billion, compared with $4.68 billion for the same period a year ago, a 13.6 percent increase. For the first nine months of the year, revenues totaled $13.68 billion, compared with $12.23 billion for the same period a year ago, an increase of 11.9 percent.
Warmer-than-normal weather for the period and a stronger-than-expected recovery in the industrial sector positively influenced third quarter earnings, as evidenced by increases in electricity usage and sales. Industrial sales benefited from an increase in exports, with those sales performing at 94 percent of pre-recession levels during the third quarter of 2010.
While our residential and commercial customers continue to face challenges, the growing strength of our industrial base confirms the Southeast as one of the strongest economies in the U.S., said Southern Company Chief Executive Officer David M. Ratcliffe. As the region begins to make slow strides toward recovery, we will continue our emphasis on exceptional service, industry-leading reliability and prices below the national average.
Third quarter earnings were negatively affected by increased operations and maintenance expenses, reflecting a return to more normal spending levels compared with the same period in 2009 and an accrual to the natural disaster reserve at Alabama Power.  Earnings were further negatively affected by higher depreciation and amortization -- including reduced amortization of the cost of removal obligations at Georgia Power
 
 
 
 
 
 
that helped offset the need for a rate request in 2009 -- and an increase in the number of Southern Company outstanding shares.
In the third quarter, kilowatt-hour sales to retail customers in Southern Companys four-state service area increased 9.4 percent compared with sales in the third quarter of 2009. Residential electricity sales increased 14.0 percent, while commercial sales increased 6.4 percent and industrial sales increased 7.3 percent. Year-to-date, kilowatt-hour sales to retail customers increased 8.7 percent compared with sales during the same period in 2009. Residential electricity sales increased 13.6 percent, while commercial sales increased 3.9 percent and industrial sales increased 9.0 percent.
Total energy sales to Southern Companys customers in the Southeast, including wholesale sales, increased 6.5 percent in the third quarter of 2010 compared with the same period in 2009. Year-to-date, total sales of electricity increased 6.9 percent compared with the same period in 2009.
Southern Companys financial analysts call will begin at 1 p.m. Eastern time today, at which time Ratcliffe, President Thomas A. Fanning and Chief Financial Officer Art P. Beattie will discuss earnings and earnings guidance, as well as a general business update. Investors, media and the public may listen to a live webcast of the call and view associated slides at . A replay of the webcast will be available at the site for 12 months.
http://investor.southerncompany.com/events.cfm
Southern Company has also posted on its website detailed financial information on its third quarter performance. These materials are available at .
www.southerncompany.com
With 4.4 million customers and more than 42,000 megawatts of generating capacity, Atlanta-based Southern Company (NYSE: SO) is the premier energy company serving the Southeast. A leading U.S. producer of electricity, Southern Company owns electric utilities in four states and a growing competitive generation company, as well as fiber optics and wireless communications. Southern Company brands are known for excellent customer service, high reliability and retail electric prices that are below the national average. Southern Company is consistently listed among the top U.S. electric service providers in customer satisfaction by the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI). Visit our website at .
www.southerncompany.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
Certain information contained in this release is forward-looking information based on current expectations and plans that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking information includes, among other things, statements concerning economic recovery. Southern Company cautions that there are certain factors that can cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information that has been provided. The reader is cautioned not to put undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which is not a guarantee of future performance and is subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Southern Company; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such suggested results will be realized. The following factors, in addition to those discussed in Southern Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and subsequent securities filings, could cause results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking information: the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation
 
 
 
 
 
 
and restructuring of the electric utility industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including regulation of water quality, coal combustion byproducts, and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, soot, particulate matter, hazardous air pollutants, including mercury, and other substances, financial reform legislation, and also changes in tax and other laws and regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, as well as changes in application of existing laws and regulations; current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries, including the pending Environmental Protection Agency civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission matters and Internal Revenue Service audits; the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which Southern Companys subsidiaries operate; variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general economy and recovery from the recent recession, population and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy conservation measures; available sources and costs of fuels; effects of inflation; ability to control costs and avoid cost overruns during the development and construction of facilities; investment performance of Southern Companys employee benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trusts; advances in technology; state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and other cost recovery mechanisms; regulatory approvals and actions related to the potential Plant Vogtle expansion, including Georgia Public Service Commission and Nuclear Regulatory Commission approvals and potential U.S . Department of Energy loan guarantees; regulatory approvals and actions related to the Kemper IGCC, including Mississippi Public Service Commission approvals and potential U.S. Department of Energy loan guarantees; the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its subsidiaries; the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as and when due and to perform as required; the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with wholesale customers; the direct or indirect effect on Southern Companys business resulting from terrorist incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents; interest rate fluctuations and financial marke t conditions and the results of financing efforts, including Southern Companys and its subsidiaries credit ratings; the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences; the direct or indirect effects on Southern Companys business resulting from incidents affecting the U.S. electric grid or operation of generating resources; and the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies. Southern Company and its subsidiaries expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information.

Exhibit 99.02
Southern Company
Financial Highlights
 
Notes
-  For the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, dilution does not change basic earnings per share by more than 1 cent and is not material.
 
-  The charge related to Southern Company's MC Asset Recovery litigation settlement significantly impacted the presentation of earnings and earnings per share
for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, and significant charges related to the Mirant spin-off are not expected to occur in the future.
 
-  Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
 
-  Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments.  Certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.

Exhibit 99.03
Southern Company
 
 
 
Notes
-  For the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, dilution does not change basic earnings per share by more than 1 cent and is not material.
 
-  The charge related to Southern Company's MC Asset Recovery litigation settlement significantly impacted the presentation of earnings and earnings per share
for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, and significant charges related to the Mirant spin-off are not expected to occur in the future.
 
-  Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
 
-  Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments.  Certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.04

Exhibit 99.05
Southern Company
Consolidated Earnings
(In Millions of Dollars)
 
 
Notes
-  Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
 
-  Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments.  Certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.
 
 

Exhibit 99.06
Southern Company
Kilowatt-Hour Sales
(In Millions of KWHs)
 
 
Notes
- Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
 
- Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments.  Certain classifications may be different from final results published in the Form 10-Q.
 

Exhibit 99.07
 
Financial Overview
(In Millions of Dollars)
 
 
Notes
-  Certain prior year data has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
 
-  Information contained in this report is subject to audit and adjustments.  Certain classifications may be different from final results published in the
Form 10-Q.
 


