FILE:SO/SO-8K-20100510165408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)                                                             
May 10, 2010
The names and addresses of the registrants have not changed since the last report.
This combined Form 8-K is furnished separately by two registrants: The Southern Company and Mississippi Power Company.  Information contained herein relating to each registrant is furnished by each registrant solely on its own behalf.  Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to the other registrant.
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01.                      .
Other Events
See MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle and  PSC Matters  Mississippi Baseload Construction Legislation of Mississippi Power Company (Mississippi Power) in Item 7 and Note 3 to the financial statements of The Southern Company under Retail Regulatory Matters  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) and of Mississippi Power under Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle in Item 8 of each companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.  Also see MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle of Mississippi Power and Note (B) to the Condensed Financial Statements under Retail Regulatory Matters  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle of each companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 for additional information regarding the Kemper IGCC.
On May 10, 2010, Mississippi Power filed a motion in response to the April 29, 2010 order of the Mississippi Public Service Commission (the Mississippi PSC) relating to the Kemper IGCC, or in the alternative, for alteration or rehearing of such order.  In its motion, Mississippi Power responded to the order and proposed alternatives to the conditions contained in the order, which, if accepted by the Mississippi PSC, would both address the Mississippi PSCs concerns and allow Mississippi Power to proceed with the Kemper IGCC.  In its motion, Mississippi Power proposed, among other things, an alternate construction cost cap of $2.88 billion, modified prudence review procedures, and a modified proposal for financing cost recovery on construction work in progress (CWIP) balances under the State of Mississippi Baseload Act of 2008, which would provide for the accrual of allowance for funds used during construction in 2010 and 2011 and recovery of financing costs on 100% of CWIP in 2012, 2013, and 2014.
The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


