FILE:SO/SO-8K-20100813161601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)                                                             
August 12, 2010
The names and addresses of the registrants have not changed since the last report.
This combined Form 8-K is filed separately by four registrants: The Southern Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company and Mississippi Power Company.  Information contained herein relating to each registrant is filed by each registrant solely on its own behalf.  Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to the other registrants.
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01.                      .
Other Events
See MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY  Credit Rating Risk of each of The Southern Company (Southern Company), Georgia Power Company (Georgia Power), Gulf Power Company (Gulf Power) and Mississippi Power Company (Mississippi Power) in their respective Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010 for information regarding the review by Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) of the securities ratings of Southern Company, Georgia Power, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power for a possible downgrade.
On August 12, 2010, Moodys announced that it had downgraded the issuer and long-term debt ratings of Southern Company (senior unsecured to Baa1 from A3), Georgia Power (senior unsecured to A3 from A2), Gulf Power (senior unsecured to A3 from A2) and Mississippi Power (senior unsecured to A2 from A1).  Moodys also announced that it had downgraded the short-term ratings of Southern Company and a financing subsidiary of Southern Company that issues commercial paper for the benefit of Southern Company subsidiaries (including Georgia Power, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power) to P-2 from P-1.  In addition, Moodys announced that it had downgraded the variable rate demand obligation ratings of Georgia Power, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power to VMIG-2 from VMIG-1 and the preferred stock ratings of Georgia Power (to Baa2 from Baa1), Gulf Power (to Baa2 from Baa1) and Mississippi Power (to Baa1 from A3).  Moodys also downgraded the trust preferred securities rating of Georgia Power to Baa1 from A3.
Moodys announced that the ratings outlook for Southern Company, Georgia Power, Gulf Power and Mississippi Power is stable.
 
- 1 - -
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
- 2 - -


