FILE:SO/SO-8K-20110527165827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)                                                          
May 25, 2011
The name and address of the registrant have not changed since the last report.
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Southern Company (the Company), the Board of Directors of the Company approved the Southern Company 2011 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plan), subject to stockholder approval.  The Plan was approved by the Companys stockholders at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 25, 2011.
The Plan provides for awards of nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance units, performance shares, and cash-based awards (collectively, the Awards).  The Plan will replace the Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan that was approved by the stockholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 24, 2006 (the 2006 Plan), which provided for awards similar as those to be provided under the Plan.
The Plan provides that if a change in control occurs, all stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, and restricted stock units will vest immediately.  A change in control does not occur unless there is a consummation of the transaction or event that results in the change in control of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
The Board of Directors may terminate or amend the Plan at any time; provided, however, without stockholder approval, the Board may not increase the total number of shares of the common stock available for grants under the Plan.  The Plan will terminate May 25, 2021, unless terminated sooner by the Board of Directors.
A total of 44,000,000 shares of common stock is available for grants under the Plan.  As of March 28, 2011, there are approximately 2,953,297 shares available under the 2006 Plan, which will be transferred to and available for grant under the Plan in addition to the 44,000,000 shares authorized under the Plan.
The description of the Plan is a summary only and is qualified by reference to the Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 herein.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Item 5.07.                   
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 25, 2011 (the Annual Meeting).  Stockholders voted as follows on the matters presented for a vote:
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
In connection with the Annual Meeting, the Board of Directors of the Company recommended that stockholders vote to conduct future advisory votes to approve the compensation of the Companys named executive officers on an annual basis.  In light of such recommendation and considering the strong support for an annual vote as reflected in the above voting results, the Board of Directors, on May 25, 2011, determined that the Company will conduct future advisory votes to approve the compensation of the Companys named executive officers annually.
Item 9.01.                   
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
4
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
5

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 1.                                Establishment, Objectives, and Duration  1
            
 
Article 2.                                Definitions   1
   
   
   
   
   
         
 
Article 3.                                Administration 4
   
   
   
   
          
 
Article 4.                                Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards                                 5
 
Article 5.                                Eligibility and Participation                                                                     7
 
Article 6.                                Stock Options                                                                                            7
 
Article 7.                                Stock Appreciation Rights                                                                       9
 
Article 8.                                Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units                                      10
 
Article 9.                                Performance Units, Performance Shares, and Cash-Based Awards  11
 
Article 10.                              Performance Measures                                                                         13
 
Article 11.                              Beneficiary Designation                                                                      
15
 
Article 12.                              Deferrals                                                                                                15
 
Article 13.                              Rights of Employees/Directors                                                           15
 
Article 14.                              Amendment, Modification, and Termination                                      16
 
Article 15.                              Withholding                                                                                           17
 
Article 16.                              Indemnification                                                                                     17
 
Article 17.                              Successors                                                                                             17
 
Article 18.                              General Provisions                                                                               17
 
i
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 1.                      Establishment, Objectives, and Duration
           .  The Southern Company (hereinafter referred to as the Company), hereby establishes this Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (hereinafter referred to as the Plan), as set forth in this document. The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, and Cash-Based Awards.
1.1.
Establishment of the Plan
Subject to approval by the Companys stockholders, the Plan shall become effective as of May 25, 2011 (the Effective Date) and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.
           . The objectives of the Plan are to optimize the profitability and growth of the Company through annual and long-term incentives that are consistent with the Companys goals and that link the personal interests of Participants to those of the Companys stockholders; to provide Participants with an incentive for excellence in individual performance; and to promote teamwork among Participants.
1.2.
Objectives of the Plan
The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of Employees and Directors who make significant contributions to the Companys success and to allow those individuals to share in the success of the Company.
           . The Plan shall commence on the Effective Date and shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Board of Directors to amend or terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Article 14 hereof, until all Shares subject to it shall have been purchased or acquired according to the Plans provisions. However, in no event may an Award be granted under the Plan on or after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date.
1.3.
Duration of the Plan
 
 
Article 2.                      Definitions
 
Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized:
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3.                      Administration
           . The Plan shall be administered by a Committee.  The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the discretion of, the Board of Directors.  The Committee shall be responsible for administration of the Plan; provided, however, that the determination of the number of Awards to be granted to Directors shall remain vested in the Board of Directors.  The Committee shall have the authority to delegate administrative duties to one or more officers, Employees or Directors of the Company or Subsidiaries to the extent that such delegation would not jeopardize the Performance-Based Exception with respect to any Award.
3.1.
General
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
           . Except as limited by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company, and subject to the provisions herein, the Committee shall have full power to select Employees and Directors who shall participate in the Plan; determine the sizes and types of Awards; determine the terms and conditions of Awards in a manner consistent with the Plan; construe and interpret the Plan and any agreement or instrument entered into under the Plan; establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plans administration; determine and certify whether Award requirements have been met; and (subject to the provisions of Articles 13 and 14 herein) amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award as provided in the Plan. Further, the Committee shall make all other determinations which may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. As permitted by law (and subject to Section 3.1 herein), the Committee may delegate its authority as identified herein.
3.2.
Authority of the Committee
           if the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company, as a result of misconduct, with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, and if the Participant knowingly or grossly negligently engaged in the misconduct, or knowingly or grossly negligently failed to prevent the misconduct, or if the Participant is one of the individuals subject to automatic forfeiture under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Participant shall reimburse the Company the amount of any payment in settlement of an Award earned or accrued during the twelve- (12-) month period following the first public issuance or filing with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever just occurred) of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement.  The Participant shall also reimburse the Company the amount of any payment in settlement of an Award to the extent required by federal law and on such basis as the Committee determines.
3.3
Underpayments/Overpayments.
  If any Participant or beneficiary receives an underpayment of Shares or cash payable under the terms of any Award, payment of any such shortfall shall be made as soon as administratively practicable.  If any Participant or beneficiary receives an overpayment of Shares or cash payable under the terms of any Award for any reason, the Committee or its delegate shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to take whatever action it deems appropriate, including but not limited to the right to require repayment of such amount or to reduce future payments under this Plan, to recover any such overpayment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
           . All determinations and decisions made by the Board or the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and all related orders and resolutions of the Board or the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders, Directors, Employees, Participants, their estates and beneficiaries and the Subsidiaries.
3.4.
Decisions Binding
 
 
Article 4.Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards
 
           . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3 herein, the number of Shares hereby reserved for issuance to Participants under the Plan shall be 44,000,000 (forty four million).  Additionally, any Shares available for issuance under the  2006 Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan effective January 1, 2006, as amended, (the 2006 Plan) on May 25, 2011 shall be transferred to the Plan, added to the reserved Shares and available for issuance to Participants under the Plan.  No more than one-half of the Shares available for issuance under the Plan may be granted in the form of Awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights.
4.1.
Number of Shares Available for Grants
The Shares available for issuance under this Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares, treasury Shares (if provided for in the Companys Certificate of Incorporation), or previously issued Shares reacquired by the Company, including Shares purchased on the open market.  
 
6
 
 
 
 
Unless and until the Committee determines that an Award to a Covered Employee shall not be designed to comply with the Performance-Based Exception, the following rules shall apply to grants of such Awards under the Plan:
 
            The maximum number of Shares of the share authorization that may be issued pursuant to ISOs under this Plan shall be one-half of the Shares available
        4.2.
Incentive Stock Option Limit.
for issuance under the Plan
           . In the event of any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, stock dividend or reclassification, or a corporate transaction, such as any merger, consolidation, separation, including a spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, any reorganization (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Code Section 368) or any partial or complete liquidation of the Company, such adjustment shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered under Section 4.1, in the number and class of and/or price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan, and in the Award limits set forth in Section 4.1 as may be determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number.  
4.3.
Adjustments in Authorized Shares
The Committee shall not make any adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.3 that would cause an Award that is otherwise exempt from Code Section 409A to become subject to Section 409A; or that would cause an Award that is subject to Code Section 409A to fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A.
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
            Any Shares covered by an Award shall be counted as used as of the date of the grant. Any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committees permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under this Plan.  The following Shares, however, may not again be made available for issuance as Awards under this Plan:  (i) Shares not issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of an outstanding Stock Appreciation Right, (ii) Shares used to pay the exercise price or withholding taxes related to an outstanding Award or (iii) Shares repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of the option exercise price.
4.4.
Share Usage.
 
Article 5.                      Eligibility and Participation
           . Persons eligible to participate in this Plan include all Employees and Directors.
5.1.
Eligibility
           . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible Employees and Directors, those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and amount of each Award.
5.2.
Actual Participation
 
Article 6.                      Stock Options
           . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee; provided that an ISO may be granted only to an eligible Employee.
6.1.
Grant of Options
           . Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO within the meaning of Code Section 422, or an NQSO whose grant is intended not to fall under the provisions of Code Section 422.
6.2.
Award Agreement
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the ability to require in the Award Agreement that the Participant must certify in a manner acceptable to the Committee that he/she is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Award Agreement. In the event that a Participant fails to comply with the provisions of this Section 6.2 prior to, or during the six (6) month period after any exercise, payment, or delivery pursuant to an Option, such exercise, payment, or delivery may be rescinded by the Committee within two (2) years thereafter. In the event of such rescission, the Participant shall pay to the Company the amount of any gain realized or payment received as a result of the rescinded exercise, payment, or delivery, in such manner and or such terms and conditions as may be required, and the Company shall be entitled to set-off against the amount of any such gain any amount owed to the Participant by the Company.
           . The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion and shall be specified in the Award Agreement; provided that the Option Price shall in no event be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of the Option.
6.3.
Option Price
           . Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided that no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10) anniversary of the date of grant of the Option.
6.4.
Term of Options
th
           . Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.
6.5.
Exercise of Options
           . Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice of exercise to the Company and/or the Committee, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares.  The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent, (b) except with regard to Executive Officers as defined in the Exchange Act, by forgoing compensation that the Committee agrees otherwise would be owed, (c) by tendering previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price, (d) by the attestation of Shares or (e) by any combination of (a), (b), (c) or (d).
6.6.
Payment
The Committee also may allow cashless exercise as permitted under Federal Reserve Boards Regulation T, subject to applicable securities law restrictions, or by any other means which the Committee determines to be consistent with the Plans purpose and applicable law.
Subject to any governing rules or regulations, after receipt of a written notification of exercise and full payment, the Company may deliver to the Participant, in the Participants name, Share certificates in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s).
All payments under all of the methods indicated above shall be paid in United States dollars.
 
9
 
 
 
 
           . The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
6.7.
Restrictions on Share Transferability
           . Each Participants Option Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participants employment or directorship with the Company. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
              6.8.
Termination of Employment/Directorship
 
Article 7.                      Stock Appreciation Rights
           . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these forms of SAR.
7.1.
Grant of SARs
The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Participant (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.
The grant price of a Freestanding SAR or a Tandem SAR shall equal the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of the SAR.
           . Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option. A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then exercisable.
7.2.
Exercise of Tandem SARs
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO: (i) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (ii) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Option Price of the underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; and (iii) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Price of the ISO.
           . Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes upon them.
7.3.
Exercise of Freestanding SARs
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
           . Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the grant price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
7.4.
SAR Agreement
           . The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, at the time of grant; provided, however, that such term shall not exceed ten (10) years.
7.5.
Term of SARs
           . Upon exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
7.6.
Payment of SAR Amount
At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in Shares of equivalent value, or in some combination thereof. The Committees discretionary authority regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR.
           . Each SAR Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participants employment or directorship with the Company and/or its Subsidiaries. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, and need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
7.7.
Termination of Employment/Directorship
 
Article 8.                      Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
           . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts as the Committee shall determine.  Restricted Stock Units shall be similar to Restricted Stock except that no shares are actually awarded to the Participant except that the Committee may designate that a portion of the Restricted Stock Unit be paid out in Shares.
8.1.
Grant of Restricted Stock/Units
           . Each Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
8.2.
Award Agreement
           .  Except as provided in Article 12, each Restricted Stock Unit shall be paid in full to the Participant no later than the fifteenth (15) day of the third month following the end of the first calendar year in which the Period of Restriction lapses.  Subject to Article 10 herein, the Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals (Company-wide, divisional, and/or individual), time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance goals and/or restrictions under applicable federal or state securities laws.
8.3.
Other Restrictions
th
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
The Company, directly or through its designee, may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Companys possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied.
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall become freely transferable by the Participant after the last day of the applicable Period of Restriction.
           .  Subject to the terms of the Award Agreements, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be granted the right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction.  A Participant has no voting rights with Restricted Stock Units.
8.4.
Voting Rights
           . Subject to the terms of the Award Agreements, during the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder may be credited with regular cash dividends paid with respect to the underlying Shares while they are so held. The Committee may apply any restrictions to the dividends that the Committee deems appropriate. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, if the grant or vesting of Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units granted to a Covered Employee is designed to comply with the requirements of the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may apply any restrictions it deems appropriate to the payment of dividends declared with respect to such Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units, such that the dividends and/or the Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units maintain eligibility for the Performance-Based Exception.  Except as provided in Article 12, any cash dividends credited with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in full to the Participant no later than the fifteenth (15) day of the third month following the end of the first calendar year in which such dividends are no longer subject to a Period of Restriction or other substantial risk of forfeiture.
8.5.
Dividends and Other Distributions
th
           . Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive unvested Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participants employment or directorship with the Company. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination; provided, however that, except in the cases of terminations connected with a Change in Control (as defined in the Change in Control Benefit Plan Determination Policy) and terminations by reason of retirement, death or Disability, the vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units which qualify for the Performance-Based Exception and which are held by Covered Employees shall not be accelerated.
8.6.
Termination of Employment/Directorship
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
Article 9.                      Performance Units, Performance Shares and Cash-Based Awards
 
           . Subject to the terms of the Plan, Performance Units, Performance Shares, and/or Cash-Based Awards may be granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
9.1.
Grant of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards
           . Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant. Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant. Each Cash-Based Award shall have a value as may be determined by the Committee. The Committee shall set performance or other goals, including without limitation time-based goals, in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number and/or value of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards which will be paid out to the Participant.
9.2.
Value of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards
           . Subject to the terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards shall be entitled to receive payout on the number and value of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards earned by the Participant as of the end of the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved.
9.3.
Earning of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards
           The factors required to determine Awards under the Plan shall be fixed in all events by the end of the applicable performance period established by the Committee.
9.4.
Determination of Awards.
           . Payment of earned Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards shall be made in such form and at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of the Award. Subject to the terms of this Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) which have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the value of the earned Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards at the close of the applicable Performance Period. Such Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. The discretionary authority of the Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award or in the administrative specifications for such Awards.  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 9.5 to the contrary and subject to Article 12, payment of any Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards shall be made no later than the fifteenth (15) day of the third month following the end of the first calendar year in which the Performance Period ends or such Awards are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.
9.5.
Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards
th
At the discretion of the Committee, Participants may be entitled to receive any dividends declared with respect to Shares which have been earned in connection with grants of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares which have been earned, but not yet distributed to Participants (such dividends shall be subject to the same accrual, forfeiture and payout restrictions as apply to dividends earned with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock, as set forth in Section 8.5 herein). In addition, Participants may, at the discretion of the Committee, be entitled to exercise their voting rights with respect to such Shares. Subject to Article 12, a
ny dividends which a Participant is entitled to receive with respect to Shares that have been earned in connection with grants of Performance Units/Shares shall be paid no later than the fifteenth (15
th
) day of the third month following the end of the first calendar year in which the Performance Period for such dividends ends or such dividends are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.
 
13
 
 
 
 
To the extent that any Performance Units/Shares or Cash-Based Award provides for the payment of all or a portion of any dividend based upon the number of shares underlying an Option or SAR, the right to such dividends shall be a separate and distinct arrangement from such Option or SAR and shall not be contingent upon the exercise of such Option or SAR.  Subject to Article 12, any such dividend shall be paid no later than the fifteenth (15) day of the third month following the end of the first calendar year in which the Performance Period for such dividends ends or such dividends are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.
th
           . Unless determined otherwise by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement or the administrative specifications for such Award, in the event the employment or directorship of a Participant is terminated by reason of death, Disability, or Retirement during a Performance Period, the Participant shall receive a payout of the Performance Units/Shares or Cash-Based Awards which is prorated, as specified by the Committee in its discretion.
9.6.
Termination of Employment/Directorship Due to Death, Disability or Retirement
Payment of earned Performance Units/Shares or Cash-Based Awards shall be made at a time specified by the Committee in its sole discretion following the Performance Period subject to the limitations set forth in Section 9.5. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Covered Employees who retire during a Performance Period, payments shall be made at the same time as payments are made to Participants who did not retire during the applicable Performance Period.
           . In the event that a Participants employment or directorship terminates for any reason other than those reasons set forth in Section 9.6 herein, all Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards shall be forfeited by the Participant to the Company unless determined otherwise by the Committee as set forth in the Participants Award Agreement or in the administrative specifications for such Award.
9.7.
Termination of Employment/Directorship for Other Reasons
 
Article 10.                      Performance Measures
Unless and until the Committee proposes for shareholder vote and shareholders approve a change in the general performance measures set forth in this Article 10, the attainment of which may determine the degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to Awards to Covered Employees which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the performance measure(s) to be used for purposes of such grants shall be chosen from among:
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
(a)           Earnings per share;
(c)           Return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, equity orsales);
(e)           Earnings before or after taxes;
(f)           Gross revenues;
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the ability to set such performance measures at the corporate level or the subsidiary/business unit level.  If the Companys Shares are traded on an established securities market, any Awards issued to Covered Employees are intended but not required to meet the requirements of the Treasury Regulations under Code Section 162(m) necessary to satisfy the Performance-Based Exception.
The Committee shall have the discretion to adjust the determinations of the degree of attainment of the preestablished performance goals; provided, however, that Awards which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, and which are held by Covered Employee, may not be adjusted upward (the Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust such Awards downward).
In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing performance measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards which shall not qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m).
No Award shall be paid unless the Committee certifies that the requirements necessary to receive the Award have been met.
 
Article 11.                      Beneficiary Designation
 
Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company or the Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company or the Committee during the Participants lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participants death shall be paid to the Participants estate.
 
Article 12.                      Deferrals
 
           To the extent permitted under the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan, a Participant may elect to defer his or her receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant with respect to Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units, Performance Shares or Cash-Based Awards (and any cash dividends credited with respect to any such Award).  Any such deferral shall be made in accordance with the rules and procedures established under the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan.
12.1.
Deferred Compensation Plan.  
 
16
 
 
 
 
           The Committee may require a Participant to defer such Participants receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant with respect to Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units, Performance Shares or Cash-Based Awards (and any cash dividends credited with respect to any such Award).  Any such requirement shall be set forth in an Award Agreement or in the administrative specifications for such Award, which shall include terms that are designed to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 409A.
12.2.
Award Agreement.  
 
Article 13.                   Rights of Employees/Directors
 
           . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate any Participants employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company.
13.1.
Employment
           . No Employee or Director shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
13.2.
Participation
           .  Except as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to shares of Common Stock covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such shares.
13.3.
Rights as a Stockholder
 
Article 14.                  Amendment, Modification and Termination
 
           Subject to Section 14.3, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate this Plan and any Award in whole or in part; provided, however, that, without the prior approval of the Companys shareholders as required by any law or rule, and, except as provided in Section 4.3, Options or SARs issued under this Plan will not be repriced, replaced with other Awards or cash, or regranted through cancellation, or by lowering the Option Price of a previously-granted Option, or the grant price of a previously-granted SAR, and no material amendment of this Plan shall be made without  approval of the Companys shareholders.  
14.1.
Amendment, Modification, and Termination
.
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Section 18.4 of the Plan may not be amended following a Change in Control or Southern Termination (as such terms are defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan).
           . The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 4.3 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulationsor accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan; provided that, unless the Committee determines otherwise at the time such adjustment is considered, no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the Plans meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, as from time to time amended.
14.2.
Adjustment of Awards upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
           . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, to the extent specifically set forth in an Award Agreement, no termination, amendment or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any such Award previously granted under the Plan without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award.
14.3.
Awards Previously Granted
           . At all times when Code Section 162(m) is applicable, all Awards granted under this Plan shall comply with the requirements of Code Section 162(m); provided, however, that in the event the Board determines that such compliance is not desired with respect to any Award or Awards available for grant under the Plan, and such determination is communicated to the Committee, then compliance with Code Section 162(m) will not be required. In addition, in the event that changes are made to Code Section 162(m) to permit greater flexibility with respect to any Award or Awards available under the Plan, the Board or the Committee may, subject to this Article 14, make any adjustments it deems appropriate.
14.4.
Compliance with Code Section 162(m)
 
Article 15.                      Withholding
           . The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy Federal, state and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Plan.
15.1.
Tax Withholding
           . With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock or upon any other taxable event arising as a result of Awards granted hereunder, the Company may require and Participants may elect, if not otherwise required, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax which could be imposed on the transaction. All such elections shall be irrevocable, made in writing, signed by the Participant and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
15.2.
Share Withholding
 
 
Article 16.                      Indemnification
Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Companys approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Companys Certificate of Incorporation of Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
 
18
 
 
 
 
 
Article 17.                      Successors
All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
 
Article 18.                      General Provisions
           . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
18.1.
Gender and Number
           . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included, provided that the remaining provisions shall be construed in a manner necessary to accomplish the intentions of the Company upon execution of the Plan.
18.2.
Severability
           . The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
18.3.
Requirements of Law
           .  The provisions of the Change in Control Benefit Plan Determination Policy are incorporated herein by reference to determine the occurrence of a change in control or preliminary change in control of Southern Company or a Subsidiary, the funding of any trust and the benefits to be provided hereunder in the event of such a change in control.  Any modifications to the Change in Control Benefit Plan Determination Policy are likewise incorporated herein.
18.4.
Change in Control
           . The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares under the Plan prior to:
18.5.
Delivery of Title
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
           . With respect to Insiders, transactions under this Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions or Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the 1934 Act. To the extent any provision of the plan or action by the Board or Committee fails to so comply, it shall be deemed null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Board or Committee.
18.6.
Securities Law Compliance
           . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate any Participants employment at any time, or confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company.
18.7.
No Additional Rights
No Employee or Director shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan or having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
Neither the Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute part of a Participants employment contract with the Company or any Subsidiary, and accordingly, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee without giving rise to liability on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary for severance payments.
           . This receipt of Awards under the Plan shall have no effect on any benefits and obligations to which a Participant may be entitled from the Company or any Subsidiary, under another plan or otherwise, or preclude a Participant from receiving any such benefits.
18.8.
No Effect on Other Benefits
           . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with provisions of laws in other countries in which the Company and its Subsidiaries operate or have Employees, the Board or the Committee, in their sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:
18.9.
Employees Based Outside of the United States
 
           The Company intends that all Awards under the Plan either comply with Code Section 409A or comply with an exemption from the application of Code Section 409A.  The Committee shall not exercise any discretion under the Plan which would violate Code Section 409A.  All Awards exempt from Code Section 409A shall be interpreted and administered in a manner as to maintain such exemption.  To the extent an Award is subject to Code Section 409A, Awards shall be paid at a time and in a form as to comply with Code Section 409A, including application of the six month delay requirement for specified employees to the extent required by Code Section 409A.
18.10.
Code Section 409A Compliance.  
 
20
 
 
 
 
Although the Company intends to administer the Plan so that Awards will be exempt from, or will comply with, the requirements of Code Section 409A in accordance with Section 18.10, the Company does not warrant that any Award under the Plan will qualify for favorable tax treatment under Code Section 409A or any other provision of federal, state, local, or foreign law.  The Company shall not be liable to any Participant for any tax the Participant might owe as a result of the grant, holding, vesting, exercise, or payment of any Award under the Plan.
18.11
 
No Guarantee of Favorable Tax Treatment.  
 
           During a Participants lifetime, his or her Awards shall be exercisable only by the Participant.  Awards shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; no Awards shall be subject, in whole or in part, to attachment, execution, or levy of any kind; and any purported transfer in violation hereof shall be null and void.  Notwithstanding the forgoing, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide in an Award Agreement or in the administrative specifications for an Award that any or all Awards (other than ISOs) shall be transferable to and exercisable by such transferees, and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Committee may deem appropriate; provided, however, no Award may be transferred for value (as defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8).
18.12.
Transferability.  
 
           .  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the ISO portion of this Plan shall be effective only if approved by the shareholders of the Company (excluding a Subsidiary) within 12 months before or after the date the Plan is adopted.  If not so approved, any Options which were designated as ISOs hereunder shall be automatically be converted to NQSOs.
18.13.
Shareholder Approval
           . To the extent not preempted by federal law, the Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
18.14.
Governing Law
 
   
 SOUTHERN COMPANY
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
By:
 _______________________
/s/ Patricia L. Roberts
      Patricia L. Roberts
 
 
Its:                                                        
Assistant Secretary
21
 
 
 
 


