FILE:SO/SO-8K-20120315190312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)                              
                                                           
March 15, 2012
The names and addresses of the registrants have not changed since the last report.
This combined Form 8-K is filed separately by two registrants: The Southern Company and Mississippi Power Company.  Information contained herein relating to each registrant is filed by each registrant solely on its own behalf.  Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to the other registrant.
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle of Mississippi Power Company (Mississippi Power) in Item 7 and Note 3 to the financial statements of The Southern Company and of Mississippi Power under Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle in Item 8 of each companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 for information regarding the integrated coal gasification combined cycle under construction in Kemper County, Mississippi (Kemper IGCC).
In June 2010, the Sierra Club filed an appeal of the Mississippi Public Service Commissions (MPSC) June 2010 decision (MPSC Order) to grant the Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) for the Kemper IGCC with the Chancery Court of Harrison County, Mississippi (Chancery Court).  On February 28, 2011, the Chancery Court issued a judgment affirming the MPSC Order and, on March 1, 2011, the Sierra Club appealed the Chancery Courts decision to the Mississippi Supreme Court.  On March 15, 2012, the Mississippi Supreme Court reversed the Chancery Courts decision and the MPSC Order.  The Mississippi Supreme Court concluded that the MPSC Order did not cite in sufficient detail substantial evidence upon which the Mississippi Supreme Court could determine the basis for the findings of the MPSC granting the CPCN.  The Mississippi Supreme Court has remanded the matter to the MPSC to correct the MPSC Order.  Mississippi Power is continuing construction of the Kemper IGCC.  While Mississippi Power believes there is no reason for the MPSC to change its decision to grant the CPCN, the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


