FILE:SO/SO-8K-20121105082528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)                                             
                                
November 5, 2012                                  
The names and addresses of the registrants have not changed since the last report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is furnished separately by six registrants: The Southern Company, Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Power Company.  Information contained herein relating to each registrant is furnished by each registrant solely on its own behalf.  Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to the other registrants.
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section.  Furthermore, such information, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On November 5, 2012, The Southern Company (Southern Company) issued a press release regarding its earnings for the periods ended September 30, 2012.  A copy of this release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  In addition, certain additional information regarding the financial results for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2012 is being furnished as Exhibits 99.02 through 99.07 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Exhibits 99.01, 99.02 and 99.03 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, in addition to including earnings and earnings per share in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, also include earnings and earnings per share for such period excluding an insurance recovery received in June 2012 that related to the March 2009 settlement agreement with MC Asset Recovery, LLC (MCAR) to resolve a lawsuit arising out of the 2003 bankruptcy of Mirant Corporation, a Southern Company subsidiary until its April 2001 spin-off.  The insurance recovery related to the MCAR settlement agreement impacted the presentation of earnings and earnings per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, and similar recoveries are not expected to occur with any regularity as part of Southern Companys ongoing business activities.  Accordingly, Southern Company believes the presentation of earnings and earnings per share excluding the insurance recovery related to the MCAR settlement agreement is useful to investors because it provides investors with additional information to evaluate the performance of Southern Companys ongoing business activities.  Southern Company management also uses earnings and earnings per share excluding the insurance recovery related to the settlement agreement with MCAR to evaluate the performance of Southern Companys ongoing business activities.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
- 1 -
 
 
 
 
 
The exhibits hereto contain business segment information for Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Power Company.  Accordingly, this report is also being furnished on behalf of each such registrant.
The following exhibits relate to the periods ended September 30, 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
- 3 -

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Southern Company Media Relations
Media Contact:
404-506-5333 or 1-866-506-5333
www.southerncompany.com
Investor Relations Contact:
            Dan Tucker
404-506-5310
dstucker@southernco.com
 
Nov. 5, 2012
 
 
ATLANTA  Southern Company (NYSE: SO) today reported third quarter earnings of $976 million, or $1.11 a share, compared with $916 million, or $1.07 a share, for the same period a year ago.
For the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2012, Southern Companys earnings were $1.97 billion, or $2.26 a share, compared with $1.94 billion, or $2.27 a share, for the same period a year ago.
Earnings for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2012, included 2 cents a share of insurance recovery related to the March 2009 settlement agreement with MC Asset Recovery, LLC to resolve a lawsuit arising out of the 2003 bankruptcy of Mirant Corp., a Southern Company subsidiary until its 2001 spinoff.  Excluding the impact of that recovery, Southern Company earned $2.24 a share for the first nine months of 2012, compared with $2.27 a share for the first nine months of 2011. 
 
 
Operating revenues for the third quarter of 2012 were $5.05 billion, compared with $5.43 billion for the same period a year ago, a 7.0 percent decrease. For the first nine months of 2012, operating revenues were $12.83 billion, compared with $13.96 billion for the same period last year, an 8.1 percent decrease. The third quarter and year-to-date decreases were primarily due to lower fuel costs that were passed through to customers.
Earnings for the third quarter of 2012 were negatively influenced by milder-than-normal weather as compared to warmer-than-normal weather for the same period in 2011. This effect was offset by reductions in non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses and by other revenue effects across the companys traditional operating units.
After a promising first six months of 2012, the economy has slowed due to uncertainty around the elections, the fiscal cliff and the slowing world economy, said Thomas A. Fanning, Southern Company chairman, president and CEO. Until these issues are resolved, the near-term outlook for the national economy will be unclear. We continue to believe that the long-term prospects for the Southeast remain strong relative to other portions of the country.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retail kilowatt-hour sales in Southern Companys four-state service territory decreased 4.0 percent in the third quarter of 2012 compared with the third quarter of 2011. Residential and commercial sales  which were affected by milder weather during the third quarter of 2012 compared to the third quarter of 2011  decreased 7.2 percent and 2.4 percent, respectively, while industrial sales decreased 1.9 percent.
For the year to date, kilowatt-hour sales to retail customers decreased 3.7 percent compared with the same period a year ago. Residential sales decreased 8.3 percent, commercial sales decreased 2.3 percent and industrial sales decreased 0.1 percent.
Total energy sales to Southern Companys customers in the Southeast, including wholesale sales, decreased 4.9 percent in the third quarter of 2012 compared with the same period in 2011. On a year-to-date basis, total energy sales decreased 5.0 percent compared with the same period in 2011.
Southern Companys financial analyst call will begin at 11 a.m. Eastern time today, during which Fanning and Chief Financial Officer Art P. Beattie will discuss earnings and provide a general business update. Investors, media and the public may listen to a live webcast of the call and view associated slides at . A replay of the webcast only will be available at the site for 12 months.
http://investor.southerncompany.com/events.cfm
Southern Company has also posted on its website detailed financial information on its third quarter performance. These materials are available at .
www.southerncompany.com
With 4.4 million customers and more than 43,000 megawatts of generating capacity, Atlanta-based Southern Company (NYSE: SO) is the premier energy company serving the Southeast. A leading U.S. producer of clean, safe, reliable and affordable electricity, Southern Company owns electric utilities in four states and a growing competitive generation company, as well as fiber optics and wireless communications. Southern Company brands are known for energy innovation, excellent customer service, high reliability and retail electric prices that are below the national average. Southern Company is leading the nations nuclear renaissance through the construction of the first new nuclear units to be built in a generation of Americans and is demonstrating its commitment to energy innovation through development of a state-of-the-art coal gasification plant. Southern Company has been recognized by the U.S. Department of Defense and GI Jobs magazine as a top military employer and listed by DiversityInc as a top company for Blacks. The company received the 2012 Edison Award from the Edison Electric Institute for its leadership in new nuclear development, was named Platts 2011 Power Company of the Year and is continually ranked among the top utilities in Fortune's annual rankings. Visit our website at .
World's Most Admired Electric and Gas Utility
www.southerncompany.com
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
 
Certain information contained in this release is forward-looking information based on current expectations and plans that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking information includes, among other things, statements concerning the economy and customer growth. Southern Company cautions that there are certain factors that can cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information that has been provided. The reader is cautioned not to put undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which is not a guarantee of future performance and is subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Southern Company; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such suggested results will be realized. The following factors,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in addition to those discussed in Southern Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and subsequent securities filings, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking information: the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory changes, including legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including regulation of water, coal combustion byproducts, and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, soot, particulate matter, hazardous air pollutants, including mercury, and other substances, financial reform legislation, and also changes in tax and other laws and regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, as well as changes in application of existing laws and regulations; current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries, including the pending Environmental Protection Agency civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission matters, and Internal Revenue Service and state tax audits; the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which Southern Companys subsidiaries operate; variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general economy and recovery from the recent recession, population and business growth (and declines), the effects of energy conservation measures, and any potential economic impacts resulting from federal budgetary decisions; available sources and costs of fuels; effects of inflation; ability to control costs and avoid cost overruns during the development and construction of facilities, which includes projects involving facility designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed; investment performance of Southern Companys employee benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust funds; advances in technology; state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and other cost recovery mechanisms; regulatory approvals and actions related to the Plant Vogtle expansion, including Georgia Public Service Commission approvals, Nuclear Regulatory Commission actions, and potential U.S. Department of Energy loan guarantees; regulatory approvals and actions related to the Kemper County integrated coal gasification combined cycle facility, including Mississippi Public Service Commission approvals, potential U.S. Department of Energy loan guarantees, the South Mississippi Electric Power Association purchase decision, satisfaction of requirements to utilize investment tax credits and grants, and the outcome of any further proceedings regarding the Mississippi Public Service Commissions issuance of the certificate of public convenience and necessity; the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its subsidiaries; the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as and when due and to perform as required; the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with wholesale customers; the direct or indirect effect on the Southern Company systems business resulting from terrorist incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents, including cyber intrusion; interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts, including Southern Companys and its subsidiaries credit ratings; the impacts of any potential U.S. credit rating downgrade or other sovereign financial issues, including impacts on interest rates, access to capital markets, impacts on currency exchange rates, counterparty performance, and the economy in general, as well as potential impacts on the availability or benefits of proposed U.S. Department of Energy loan guarantees; the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences; the direct or indirect effects on the Southern Company systems business resulting from incidents affecting the U.S. electric grid or operation of generating resources; and the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies. Southern Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking information.

 
 
Notes
 
 

 
 
 
 
Notes
 

 

 
 
 
Notes
 
 

 
 
Notes
 
 
 

 
 
Notes
 
 
 


