FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20041109154740.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On November 9, 2004, FMC Technologies, Inc. issued a press release announcing the webcast of presentations to be given by Joseph H. Netherland, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and William H. Schumann, III, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, at the Friedman Billings Ramsey 11
th
Annual Investor Conference in New York on Tuesday, November 30, 2004, at 2:10 PM E.S.T. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
99.1 Press release issued by FMC Technologies, Inc. dated November 9, 2004
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: November 9, 2004

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
: Immediate
For Release
 
 
FMC Technologies CEO and CFO to Address
Friedman Billings Ramsey Investor Conference
 
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: FTI) announced today that Joseph H. Netherland, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and William H. Schumann, III, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, will present at the following event:
HOUSTON, November 9, 2004
 
 
FMC Technologies, Inc. () is a global leader providing mission-critical technology solutions for the energy, food processing and air transportation industries. FMC Technologies designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products for its customers through its Energy Systems (comprising Energy Production and Energy Processing), FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses. FMC Technologies employs approximately 8,600 people and operates 32 manufacturing facilities in 16 countries.
www.fmctechnologies.com
 


