FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20040219121731.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished as part of this report:
 
99.1 Press release issued by FMC Technologies, Inc. dated February 18, 2004.
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On February 18, 2004, FMC Technologies, Inc. issued a press release announcing that it had signed a revised contract with one of its customers, Sonatrach-TRC, the Algerian Oil and Gas Company. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 18, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
FMC Technologies Signs Revised Contract with Sonatrach
For Oil Loading Project in Algeria
 
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: FTI) announced today that it has signed a revised contract with Sonatrach-TRC, the Algerian Oil and Gas Company, for Sonatrach's offshore oil loading project in Algeria, reducing the scope of FMC Technologies' work from $240 million to $224 million.
HOUSTON, February 18, 2004
 
The revised contract terms eliminate certain efforts associated with the project's onshore pipeline construction and extend the completion date to May 2005. This revision removes uncertainty from the contract's scope and schedule and from the interpretation of contract terms. It does not, however, significantly improve profit opportunities. At this time, FMC Technologies expects a breakeven profit level on this contract.
 
"We are pleased to have come to an agreement with Sonatrach that resolves what we are responsible for and when it is scheduled to be completed," said Peter D. Kinnear, Vice President  FMC Energy Systems. "This is a big step forward in resolving various issues with Sonatrach and in ultimately providing Algeria with increased export capabilities. We look forward to completing this project in 2005."
 
FMC Technologies, Inc. () is a global leader providing mission-critical technology solutions for the energy, food processing and air transportation industries. The Company designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products for its customers through its Energy Systems (comprising Energy Production Systems and Energy Processing Systems), FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses. FMC Technologies employs approximately 8,600 people and operates 32 manufacturing facilities in 16 countries.
www.fmctechnologies.com
 
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the risks and uncertainties described in the Company's 2002 Form 10-K. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that actual results may differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.
 


