FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20040325211816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(C) Exhibits:
 
 
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
 
On March 25, 2004, FMC Technologies, Inc. issued a press release announcing that it will account for employee stock option compensation expense using the fair value method in accordance with SFAS No. 123. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: March 25, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
: Immediate
For Release
 
 
FMC Technologies to Record Expense for Stock Options
 
and  FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: FTI) announced today that the Company will account for employee stock option compensation expense using the fair value method in accordance with SFAS No. 123.
HOUSTON
CHICAGO, March 25, 2004
 
In order to present information comparably, FMC Technologies has chosen the retroactive restatement method available under SFAS No. 148. Compensation expense, net of tax, is reflected in the Company's restated financial results in accordance with SFAS No. 123.
 
"We believe this is the appropriate accounting for employee stock options. Restating prior year's financials provides the most relevant comparison to evaluate year-to-year operating performance" said William H. Schumann, III, FMC Technologies' Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
 
The accounting change reduces earnings per diluted share by $0.09 in 2002 and $0.10 in 2003. The restated quarterly and annual results for both years are presented as an attachment to this press release.
 
 
FMC Technologies, Inc. () is a global leader providing mission-critical technology solutions for the energy, food processing and air transportation industries. The Company designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products for its customers through its Energy Systems (comprising Energy Production and Energy Processing), FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses. FMC Technologies employs approximately 8,600 people and operates 32 manufacturing facilities in 16 countries.
www.fmctechnologies.com
 
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the risks and uncertainties described in the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company's 2003 Form 10-K. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that actual results may differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.
FMC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
Impact of Change in Accounting to Recognize Compensation Expense for Employee Stock Options
(in millions, except for per share data)
 


