FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20050601135734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On May 31, 2005, FMC Technologies, Inc. issued a press release announcing that Peter D. Kinnear, Executive Vice President, will address attendees at the Wachovia Securities 15th Annual Nantucket Equity Conference in Nantucket, Massachusetts on Thursday, June 30, at 2:00 P.M. E.D.T. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On May 31, 2005, FMC Technologies, Inc. also issued a press release announcing that William H. Schumann, III, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will address attendees at the RBC Capital Markets North American Energy and Power Conference in Boston, Massachusetts on Monday, June 6, at 4:10 P.M. E.D.T. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: May 31, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
FMC Technologies Executive Vice President to Address
Wachovia Securities 15
th
Annual Nantucket Equity Conference
 
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: FTI) announced today that Peter D. Kinnear, Executive Vice President, will address attendees at the following event:
HOUSTON, May 31, 2005
 
 
FMC Technologies, Inc. () is a global leader providing mission-critical technology solutions for the energy, food processing and air transportation industries. FMC Technologies designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products for its customers through its Energy Systems (comprising Energy Production and Energy Processing), FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses. FMC Technologies employs approximately 9,000 people and operates 31 manufacturing facilities in 16 countries.
www.fmctechnologies.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
FMC Technologies CFO to Address
RBC Capital Markets North American Energy and Power Conference
 
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: FTI) announced today that William H. Schumann, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will address attendees at the following event:
HOUSTON, May 31, 2005
 
 
FMC Technologies, Inc. () is a global leader providing mission-critical technology solutions for the energy, food processing and air transportation industries. FMC Technologies designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products for its customers through its Energy Systems (comprising Energy Production and Energy Processing), FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses. FMC Technologies employs approximately 9,000 people and operates 31 manufacturing facilities in 16 countries.
www.fmctechnologies.com
 


