FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20050105172334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On January 5, 2005, FMC Technologies, Inc. issued a press release announcing a presentation to be given by John T. Gremp, Vice President  Energy Systems, at the Pritchard Capital Energy Partners Conference in San Francisco on Thursday, January 6, 2005, at 2:15 P.M., P.S.T. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 5, 2005

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
FMC Technologies Vice President  Energy Systems to Address
Pritchard Capital Energy Partners Conference
 
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: FTI) announced today that John T. Gremp, Vice President  Energy Systems, will present at the following event:
HOUSTON, January 5, 2005
 
 
FMC Technologies, Inc. (www.fmctechnologies.com) is a global leader providing mission-critical technology solutions for the energy, food processing and air transportation industries. FMC Technologies designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products for its customers through its Energy Systems (comprising Energy Production and Energy Processing), FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses. FMC Technologies employs approximately 8,600 people and operates 32 manufacturing facilities in 16 countries.
 


