FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20050224142838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On February 23, 2005, FMC Technologies, Inc. issued a press release announcing that Joseph H. Netherland, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and William H. Schumann, III, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will address attendees at the following events:
 
Banc of America Securities Energy Forum  London, England
Tuesday, March 1
 
Banc of America Securities Energy Forum  Milan, Italy
Wednesday, March 2
 
A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
99.1    Press release issued by FMC Technologies, Inc. dated February 23, 2005
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 24, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
FMC Technologies CEO and CFO to Address
Banc of America Securities Energy Forum in London and Milan
 
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: FTI) announced today that Joseph H. Netherland, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and William H. Schumann, III, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will address attendees at the following events:
HOUSTON, February 23, 2005
 
 
FMC Technologies, Inc. () is a global leader providing mission-critical technology solutions for the energy, food processing and air transportation industries. FMC Technologies designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products for its customers through its Energy Systems (comprising Energy Production and Energy Processing), FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses. FMC Technologies employs approximately 9,000 people and operates 31 manufacturing facilities in 16 countries.
www.fmctechnologies.com
 


