FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20050801162141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(d) On August 1, 2005, FMC Technologies, Inc. announced the election of Caroline Maury Devine to its Board of Directors, effective July 29, 2005.
 
Ms. Devine was also appointed to serve as a member of the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of FMC Technologies, Inc.
 
Since the beginning of the last fiscal year of FMC Technologies, Inc., there have been no transactions, or series of transactions between Ms. Devine or any members of her immediate family and FMC Technologies, Inc. in which Ms. Devine or her immediate family has, or will have, a direct or indirect material interest.
 
A copy of the press release issued by FMC Technologies, Inc. on August 1, 2005 is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) Exhibits
 
99.1     Press Release issued by FMC Technologies, Inc., dated August 1, 2005, with respect to the election of a director.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 1, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
FMC Technologies Elects Maury Devine to Board of Directors
 
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: FTI) today announced the election of C. Maury Devine to the Company's Board of Directors.
Houston, August 1, 2005
 
Ms. Devine is Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Det Norske Veritas (DNV), headquartered in Oslo, Norway. DNV offers certification, consulting and risk management services to customers in the transportation and petrochemical industries through its network of 300 offices in about 100 countries.
 
A resident of Washington, D.C., Ms. Devine's prior energy industry experience includes serving 12 years in executive positions at Exxon Mobil Corporation, including Chairman, President and Managing Director of Mobil Exploration Norway and Corporate Secretary of Mobil Corporation. Prior to joining ExxonMobil, she served 15 years in the U.S. government in positions at the White House, the American Embassy in Paris and the U.S. Department of Justice.
 
In addition to the DNV Board, Ms. Devine serves on the Board of Directors of Independence Air, Inc., a regional airline that serves the Eastern and Midwestern United States. She also served as a Fellow at Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs from 2000 to 2003.
 
"We are pleased to have Maury Devine join our Board of Directors," said Joseph H. Netherland, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of FMC Technologies. "Her distinguished business and government experience and leadership will be valuable additional assets for our exceptionally qualified Board."
 
 
FMC Technologies, Inc. () is a global leader providing mission-critical technology solutions for the energy, food processing and air transportation industries. The Company designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products for its customers through its Energy Systems (comprising Energy Production and Energy Processing), FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses. FMC Technologies employs approximately 9,000 people and operates 31 manufacturing facilities in 16 countries.
www.fmctechnologies.com


