FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20060228172341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On February 27, 2006, FMC Technologies, Inc. announced the appointment of Peter D. Kinnear as President and Chief Operating Officer effective February 22, 2006, the date of approval of the appointment by the Board of Directors. In addition to his current responsibilities of managing the Companys Energy Systems businesses, Mr. Kinnear will now also lead its FMC FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses and the corporate information technology, human resources, and procurement functions. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Kinnear served as Executive Vice President, responsible for the Companys Energy Systems businesses, an appointment he received in 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Kinnear served as a Vice President of FMC Corporation. A press released issued by FMC Technologies, Inc. on February 27, 2006 announcing Peter Kinnear's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
1803 Gears Road Houston, TX 77067
FMC Technologies Inc
FMC Technologies Appoints Peter D. Kinnear President and Chief Operating Officer
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: FTI) announced today that its Board of Directors has appointed Peter D. Kinnear President and Chief Operating Officer. In addition to his current responsibilities of managing the Company's Energy Systems businesses, he will now lead its FMC FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses and the corporate information technology, human resources, and procurement functions.
Houston, February 27, 2006
"Peter's success in leading our oilfield businesses, building our subsea franchise and expanding our technology base make him a superb choice to manage a broader portfolio of businesses, " said Joseph H. Netherland, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Peter's operations expertise, vision of growth, and important industry relationships will serve FMC Technologies well as we continue to grow the company."
Until his latest appointment, Kinnear served as Executive Vice President, responsible for the Company's Energy Systems businesses. He joined FMC Technologies' predecessor organization in 1971 as a Business Planner. He subsequently held several marketing and operations management positions in the Company's energy businesses. He was named a Vice President in 2000 and an Executive Vice President in 2004. He currently serves as Chairman of the U.S. National Committee of the World Petroleum Council. He serves on the boards of Tronox, Inc. (NYSE: TRX), the Petroleum Equipment Suppliers Association, and the Offshore Energy Center.
FMC Technologies, Inc. (
www.fmctechnologies.com
) is a global leader providing mission-critical technology solutions for the energy, food processing and air transportation industries. FMC Technologies designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products for its customers through its Energy Systems (comprising Energy Production Systems and Energy Processing Systems), FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses. FMC Technologies employs approximately 10,000 people and operates 32 manufacturing facilities in 17 countries.


