FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20100323153634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 22, 2010, FMC Technologies, Inc. announced the appointment of John T. Gremp as President and Chief Operating Officer effective April 1, 2010, as approved by the Board of Directors. Mr. Gremp's responsibilities will include the Business Development, Information Technologies, Industry Relations and Security functions for the Corporation. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Gremp served as Executive Vice President, Energy Systems since 2007, responsible for all of the businesses of the Energy Production and Energy Processing segments. From 2004, Mr. Gremp served as Vice President of Energy Production, an appointment he received after serving as General Manager of Energy Production.
A press release issued by FMC Technologies, Inc. on March 22, 2010, announcing Mr. Gremp's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibit
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 23, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE:FTI) announced today two key executive appointments, effective April 1, 2010.
HOUSTON, March 22, 2010
FMC's Board of Directors has appointed John T. Gremp President and Chief Operating Officer of FMC Technologies. Mr. Gremp will succeed Peter D. Kinnear as President. Since joining the company in 1975, Mr. Gremp has served in a variety of operations management roles, most recently as Executive Vice President of Energy Systems.
In addition, Robert L. Potter will succeed Mr. Gremp as Executive Vice President of Energy Systems. In this role, Mr. Potter will be responsible for the Energy Processing and Energy Production segment businesses. Previously, Mr. Potter was Senior Vice President of FMC's Energy Processing and Global Surface Wellhead businesses. Mr. Potter has been with the company since 1973.
"John and Bob bring a wealth of experience to their respective roles," said Peter D. Kinnear, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Their leadership, management depth and energy industry knowledge will serve us well as we continue to seek opportunities to further grow the company."
FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE:FTI) is a leading global provider of technology solutions for the energy industry. Named by FORTUNE Magazine as the World's Most Admired Oil and Gas Equipment, Service Company in 2010, the Company has approximately 10,400 employees and operates 25 production facilities in 15 countries. FMC Technologies designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products such as subsea production and processing systems, surface wellhead systems, high pressure fluid control equipment, measurement solutions, and marine loading systems for the oil and gas industry. For more information visit .
www.fmctechnologies.com
 


