FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20110228165237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 28, 2011, FMC Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") announced that, in order to provide for a smooth transition of Company leadership, effective March 1, 2011, Mr. Peter D. Kinnear will relinquish the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") position, and Mr. John T. Gremp, the Company's President, will assume the CEO position as President and CEO. Mr. Kinnear will continue to be an employee of the Company and will continue to serve as the Chairman of the Board until October 31, 2011, at which time Mr. Gremp will assume the additional role of Chairman of the Board.
Mr. Gremp, age 59, has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since February 2010. Prior to his appointment as President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Gremp served as the Company's Executive Vice President  Energy Systems from 2007 to 2010 and as Vice President and Group Manager  Energy Production from 2004 to 2007.
On February 25, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company also elected Mr. Gremp to serve as a Director of the Company, effective immediately until the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders or until his successor has been duly chosen and qualified. In light of his position as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, it is expected that Mr. Gremp will not be a member of any of the Board committees, which are comprised of independent directors.
A copy of the News Release announcing the changes described above is attached to this current report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits:
 
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Top of the Form
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE:FTI) announced today that Peter D. Kinnear will be succeeded by John T. Gremp as President and Chief Executive Officer effective March 1, 2011. Additionally, Mr. Gremp has joined the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Kinnear will continue in the role of Chairman of the Board until October 31, 2011, at which time Mr. Gremp will assume the additional role of Chairman of the Board.
HOUSTON, February 28, 2011
Mr. Gremp was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of FMC Technologies in April, 2010. During his 35 year career, he has held a variety of management roles, recently serving as the Executive Vice President of Energy Systems in 2007 and Vice President Energy Production in 2004.
Mr. Kinnear said, "John has done an excellent job continuing the worldwide growth of our businesses. His efforts to expand the Company's technology position and building our global presence have been outstanding."
In making the announcement, FMC's Board of Directors noted that the appointment of Mr. Gremp as President and Chief Executive Officer is a tremendous credit to Mr. Kinnear's leadership and his work regarding succession planning for the Company.
FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE:FTI) is a leading global provider of technology solutions for the energy industry. Named by FORTUNE Magazine as the World's Most Admired Oil and Gas Equipment, Service Company in 2010, the Company has approximately 11,200 employees and operates 25 production facilities in 15 countries. FMC Technologies designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products such as subsea production and processing systems, surface wellhead systems, high pressure fluid control equipment, measurement solutions, and marine loading systems for the oil and gas industry. For more information visit .
www.fmctechnologies.com
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. These risks and uncertainties are described under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and may be modified in subsequent quarterly reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission that may be accessed on the Company's website. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that actual results may differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.


