FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20111104153734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 4, 2011, FMC Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") announced the retirement of William H. Schumann, III, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective August 31, 2012. Mr. Schumann will step down as Chief Financial Officer on November 30, 2011, to focus on strategic activities for the Company.
Maryann T. Seaman, age 49 and current Vice President, Treasurer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer, will succeed Mr. Schumann as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective December 1, 2011. Ms. Seaman has been with the Company for over 25 years and was appointed to her current role in April 2010. Ms. Seaman has held a number of key and influential roles with the Company throughout her career, including Vice President of Administration, Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Development, as well as Group Controller for the Company's former FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses.
Halet Murphy will replace Ms. Seaman as Treasurer, effective November 7, 2011. Mr. Murphy most recently was Vice President and Treasurer of Hawker Beechcraft.
A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibit:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 4, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
:     Immediate
                        For Release
 
 FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: FTI) announced today changes to its Executive Leadership Team.
HOUSTON, November 4, 2011
Bill Schumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has chosen to retire from FMC Technologies after 30 years of service with the Company, effective August 31, 2012. In addition, he will step down as Chief Financial Officer on November 30, 2011, to focus on strategic activities for FMC. Mr. Schumann's leadership and financial guidance has been instrumental in supporting the overall growth and success of the Company.
Maryann Seaman, current Vice President, Treasurer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer, will succeed Mr. Schumann as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective December 1, 2011. Ms. Seaman has been with FMC for over 25 years and was appointed to her current role in April 2010. She has held a number of key and influential roles throughout her career, including Vice President of Administration, Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Development, as well as Group Controller for FMC's former FoodTech and Airport Systems businesses.
Halet Murphy will replace Ms. Seaman as Treasurer, effective November 7, 2011. Mr. Murphy most recently was Vice President and Treasurer at Hawker Beechcraft. He has over 15 years of financial knowledge and experience gained from engineering and manufacturing industries.
FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE:FTI) is a leading global provider of technology solutions for the energy industry. Named by FORTUNE Magazine as the World's Most Admired Oil and Gas Equipment, Service Company in 2010, the Company has approximately 13,500 employees and operates 27 production facilities in 16 countries. FMC Technologies designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products such as subsea production and processing systems, surface wellhead systems, high pressure fluid control equipment, measurement solutions, and marine loading systems for the oil and gas industry. For more information, visit .
www.fmctechnologies.com
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. These risks and uncertainties are described under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and may be modified in subsequent quarterly reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission that may be accessed on the Company's website. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that actual results may differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.


