FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20120327150000.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 26, 2012 FMC Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us" or "our") entered into a new $1.5 billion revolving credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent; The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as Syndication Agent; The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., DNB Bank ASA, Grand Cayman Branch, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents; J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc., The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., DNB Markets, Inc., and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as Joint Bookrunners and Co-Lead Arrangers; and the other lenders party thereto (the "Credit Agreement").
The Credit Agreement is a five-year, revolving credit facility expiring in March 2017. Subject to certain conditions, at our request and with the approval of the Administrative Agent, the aggregate commitments under the Credit Agreement may be increased by up to an additional $500 million.
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a base rate or the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR"), at our option, plus an applicable margin. Depending on our total leverage ratio, the applicable margin for revolving loans varies (i) in the case of LIBOR loans, from 1.125% to 1.750% and (ii) in the case of base rate loans, from 0.125% to 0.75%. The base rate is the highest of (1) the prime rate announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., (2) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% or (3) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%.
The Credit Agreement contains usual and customary covenants, representations and warranties and events of default for credit facilities of this type, including financial covenants. To the extent the Company has outstanding commercial paper, its aggregate ability to borrow under the Credit Agreement is reduced. As of March 26, 2012, the Company had $100.0 million in direct borrowings under the Credit Agreement and $571 million of commercial paper outstanding.
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
 
In connection with the transaction described in Item 1.01 above, on March 26, 2012, we terminated and repaid in full $100.0 million in outstanding loans, together with interest and all other amounts due in connection with such repayment, under the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2007 (as amended, the "2007 Credit Agreement"), by and among us, as Borrower; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent; J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Corporation, as Joint Bookrunners and Co-Lead Arrangers; The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as Syndication Agent; and the lenders party thereto. The 2007 Credit Agreement and the description thereof are hereby incorporated by reference to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 7, 2007 and Exhibit 10.15 thereto.
As of March 26, 2012, there were no outstanding loans under our Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2010 (the "2010 Credit Agreement"), by and among us, as Borrower; Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent; DnB NOR Bank ASA, as Syndication Agent; Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents; Banc of America Securities LLC and DnB NOR Bank ASA, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers; and the lenders party thereto. Therefore, in connection with the transaction described in Item 1.01 above, on March 26, 2012, we terminated our 2010 Credit Agreement. The 2010 Credit Agreement and the description thereof are hereby incorporated by reference to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 15, 2010 and Exhibit 10 thereto.
 
The description of the Credit Agreement described above under Item 1.01 is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference. A copy of the Credit Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of March 26, 2012, among FMC TECHNOLOGIES, INC., the LENDERS party hereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND plc, as Syndication Agent, and THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD., DNB BANK ASA, GRAND CAYMAN BRANCH and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Co-Documentation Agents.
The parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to a Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
"" means, at any date, all Debt (excluding Debt evidenced by Hybrid Securities up to an aggregate amount of 15% of Total Capitalization) of the Borrower and its Consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis as of such date. For purposes of this definition, "" means any trust preferred securities or deferrable interest subordinated debt with a maturity of at least 20 years, which provides for the optional or mandatory deferral of interest or distributions, issued by the Borrower, or any business trusts, limited liability companies, limited partnerships or similar entities (i) substantially all of the common equity, general partner or similar interests of which are owned (either directly or indirectly through one or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries) at all times by the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries, (ii) that have been formed for the purpose of issuing hybrid trust preferred securities or deferrable interest subordinated debt, and (iii) substantially all the assets of which consist of (A) subordinated debt of the Borrower or a Subsidiary, and (B) payments made from time to time on the subordinated debt.
Adjusted Total Debt
Hybrid Securities
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Administrative Agent
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1% and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) plus 1%, provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Adjusted LIBO Rate for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or on any successor or substitute page of such page) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate, respectively.
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment; that, in the case of Section 2.22 when a Defaulting Lender shall exist, "Applicable Percentage" shall mean the percentage of the total Commitments (disregarding any Defaulting Lender's Commitment) represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments and to any Lender's status as a Defaulting Lender at the time of determination.
Applicable Percentage
provided
"" means, for any day, with respect to any Eurodollar Revolving Loan or any ABR Revolving Loan, or with respect to the commitment fees payable hereunder, as the case may be, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Eurodollar Spread", "ABR Spread" or "Commitment Fee Rate", as the case may be, based upon the ratings by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to the Index Debt:
Applicable Rate
 
For purposes of the foregoing, (i) if either Moody's or S&P shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the last sentence of this definition), then such rating agency shall be deemed to have established a rating in Category 5; (ii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the better of the two ratings unless one of the two ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category next below that of the better of the two ratings; and (iii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency, irrespective of when notice of such change shall have been furnished by the Borrower to the Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Section 5.01 or otherwise. Each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in a rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public
 
announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the date of the next such public announcement thereof. If the rating system of Moody's or S&P shall change, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation.
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means an assignment and assumption agreement entered into by a Lender and Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
"" means, at any time with respect to any Lender, the Commitment of such Lender then in effect minus the Revolving Credit Exposure of such Lender at such time; it being understood and agreed that any Lender's Swingline Exposure shall not be deemed to be a component of the Revolving Credit Exposure for purposes of calculating the commitment fee under Section 2.12(a).
Available Revolving Commitment
"" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
Availability Period
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or, in the good faith determination of the Administrative Agent, has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment, provided that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest, or the acquisition of any ownership interest, in such Person by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof, provided, further, that such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made by such Person.
Bankruptcy Event
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" means FMC Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Borrower
"" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect, or (b) a Swingline Loan.
Borrowing
"" means a request by the Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
 
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by Law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
Business Day
"" has the meaning assigned under Section 2.06(j).
Cash Collateral Account
"" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a) any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert (other than a Plan or Plans) shall, after the date of this Agreement, acquire beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of 20% or more of the outstanding shares of voting stock of the Borrower; or
(b) during any period of 12 consecutive months commencing before or after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such 12 month (or lesser) period were directors of the Borrower (together with any new directors whose election by the Borrower's board of directors or whose nomination for election by the Borrower's stockholders was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower.
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement (or with respect to any Lender, if later, the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender), of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority, or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rules, guideline, requirement or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority; , that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives thereunder, issued in connection therewith or in implementation thereof, and (ii) all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law" regardless of the date enacted, adopted, issued or implemented.
Change in Law
provided
however
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans.
Class
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means each of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., DNB Bank ASA, Grand Cayman Branch and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association in its capacity as co-documentation agent for the credit facility evidenced by this Agreement.
Co-Documentation Agent
"" means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc., The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., DNB Markets, Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC.
Co-Lead Arrangers
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit
Commitment
 
Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced or terminated from time to time pursuant to Section 2.09, (b) increased from time to time pursuant to Section 2.20 and (c) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption or other documentation contemplated hereby pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $1,500,000,000.00.
"" means all capital stock of an issuer, except capital stock as to which both the entitlement to dividends and the participation in assets upon liquidation are by the terms of such capital stock limited to a fixed or determinable amount.
Common Stock
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit C.
Compliance Certificate
"" means Other Connection Taxes that are imposed on or measured by net income (however denominated) or that are franchise Taxes.
Connection Income Taxes
"" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period, plus, without duplication and to the extent included in determining Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) total income tax expense of the Borrower and its Consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries, (b) Consolidated Interest Expense, (c) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of the Borrower and its Consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries, (d) amortization of intangibles (including goodwill) and organization costs of the Borrower and its Consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries and (e) any other non-cash charges, minus, to the extent included in determining Consolidated Net Income for such period, any non-cash credits of the Borrower and its Consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries.
Consolidated EBITDA
"" means, for any period with respect to the Borrower and its Consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, fees, charges and related expenses for such period in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, plus (b) the portion of rent expense with respect to such period under capital leases that is treated as interest, minus (c) interest income for such period.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" means, for any period, the net income (or loss) of the Borrower and its Consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, excluding, without duplication, (a) extraordinary items, (b) the effect of cumulative changes in generally accepted accounting principles and (c) any income (or loss) of any Unrestricted Subsidiary during such period, except to the extent of dividends received during such period by the Borrower or by a Consolidated Restricted Subsidiary.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, at any date, any Restricted Subsidiary the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the Borrower in its consolidated financial statements as of such date.
Consolidated Restricted Subsidiary
"" means, at any date, any Subsidiary or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the Borrower in its consolidated financial statements as of such date.
Consolidated Subsidiary
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank, the Swingline Lender or any other Lender.
Credit Party
 
"" of any Person means, at any date, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments (other than the non-negotiable notes of such Person issued to its insurance carriers in lieu of maintenance of policy reserves in connection with its workers' compensation and auto liability insurance program), (c) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable, expense accruals and deferred employee compensation items arising in the ordinary course of business, (d) all obligations (contingent or non-contingent) of such Person to reimburse any Issuing Bank or any other Person in respect of amounts payable or paid under a financial standby letter of credit or similar instrument, (e) all obligations of such Person as lessee under capital leases, (f) all Debt of others secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such Debt is assumed by such Person, and (g) all Guaranty Obligations of such Person in respect of the Debt of any other Person.
Debt
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States of America, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer or conveyance, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States of America or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed, within two (2) Business Days of the date required to be funded or paid, to (i) fund any portion of its Loans, (ii) fund any portion of its participations in Letters of Credit or Swingline Loans or (iii) pay over to any Credit Party any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in the case of clause (i) above, such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not been satisfied, (b) has notified the Borrower or any Credit Party in writing, or has made a public statement to the effect, that it does not intend or expect to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement indicates that such position is based on such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) to funding a loan under this Agreement cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three (3) Business Days after request by a Credit Party, acting in good faith, to provide a certification in writing from an authorized officer of such Lender that it will comply with its obligations to fund prospective Loans and participations in then outstanding Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans under this Agreement, provided that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon such Credit Party's receipt of such certification in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to it and the Administrative Agent, or (d) has become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event; that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority so long as such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such Governmental Authority) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Lender.
Defaulting Lender
provided
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).
Effective Date
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural Person) approved by the Administrative Agent and each Significant Issuing Bank and, unless (i) the assignee is a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or (ii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower (each such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); that, notwithstanding the foregoing, "Eligible Assignee" shall not include the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
Eligible Assignee
provided
"" means all Laws, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources or the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means the Borrower, any Restricted Subsidiary and all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Group
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, means that such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, bears interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
Eurodollar
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII.
Event of Default
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document, (a) Taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income (however denominated) or franchise Taxes, in each case (i) imposed by the United States of America (or any political subdivision thereof), or by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the Laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender or Issuing Bank, in which its applicable lending office is located, or (ii) that are Other Connection Taxes, (b) any branch profits Taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar Tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the applicable Lender or Issuing Bank has a trade or business, office or other permanent establishment, (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender any withholding Tax that is imposed on amounts payable to or for the account of such Foreign Lender with respect to an applicable interest in a Loan or Commitment pursuant to a law in effect on the date on which such
Excluded Taxes
 
Foreign Lender (x) acquires such interest in the Loan or Commitment (other than by an assignment pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.19(b)), or (y) designates a new lending office), except in each case to the extent amounts were payable pursuant to Section 2.17(a) either to such Lender's assignor immediately before it became a party hereto or to such Lender immediately before it changed its lending office, (d) in the case of any Foreign Lender, any withholding Tax attributable to the Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.17(e), (e) in the case of any Lender other than a Foreign Lender, any Tax attributable to such Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.17(f) and (f) any U.S. Federal withholding Taxes imposed under FATCA.
"" means the Credit Agreement dated as of December 6, 2007, as heretofore amended, among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" means the Letters of Credit heretofore issued pursuant to the Existing Credit Agreement and described on Schedule 1.01.
Existing Letters of Credit
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer, director of treasury operations or controller of the Borrower.
Financial Officer
"" means any Lender or Issuing Bank that is organized under the Laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is organized. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" means, as to any Person, (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guarantying or having the economic effect of guarantying any Debt or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such
Guaranty Obligation
 
Debt or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Debt or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Debt or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligees in respect of such Debt or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligees against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Debt or other obligation is assumed by such Person; provided that the term "Guaranty Obligation" shall not include endorsements of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. The amount of any Guaranty Obligation shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guaranty Obligation is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guarantying Person in good faith.
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means Taxes, other than Excluded Taxes and Other Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Borrower that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.08.
Interest Election Request
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan (other than a Swingline Loan), the last day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date, (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period and the Maturity Date and (c) with respect to any Swingline Loan, the day that such Loan is required to be repaid and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
"" means with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the date 7 or 14 days (subject to availability to all Lenders) or one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect; , that (a) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (b) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" means any investment by any Person (the "Investor") in any other Person
Investment
 
(the "Investee") whether by means of share purchase, capital contribution, loan, time deposit, incurrence of Guaranty Obligation or otherwise. It is understood that neither (a) an item reflected in the financial statements of the Investor as an expense nor (b) an adjustment to the carrying value of the Investee in the financial statements of the Investor (such as by reason of increased retained earnings of the Investee) constitutes the making or acquisition of an Investment for purposes hereof.
"" means with respect to each Letter of Credit issued or, in the case of each Existing Letter of Credit, deemed issued hereunder, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., DNB Bank ASA, Grand Cayman Branch, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association or such other Lender that has issued or agreed to issue such Letter of Credit at the request of the Borrower and that is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, in its capacity as the issuer of such Letter of Credit, and Issuing Banks means, collectively, all of such Issuing Banks; that, solely with respect to the Existing Letters of Credit, Bank of America, N.A. shall be deemed to be an Issuing Bank. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as an Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by its Affiliates, in which case the term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate.
Issuing Bank
provided
"" means JPMorgan Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Corporation.
Joint Bookrunners
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
"" means a payment made by an Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
"" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a Lender hereunder pursuant to Section 2.20 or pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender.
Lenders
"" means any letter of credit issued or deemed to be issued pursuant to this Agreement, including the Existing Letters of Credit.
Letter of Credit
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or on any successor or substitute page of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "
LIBO Rate
LIBO
 
" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Rate
"" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset. For the purpose of this Agreement, the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset that it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset.
Lien
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
"" means this Agreement, each Note and the letter of credit applications with respect to Letters of Credit issued pursuant hereto.
Loan Documents
"" means an effect that results in or causes a material adverse effect (a) on the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (b) on the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means Debt (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Agreements, of any one or more of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $100,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Debt, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Borrower or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time.
Material Debt
"" means any Plan or Plans having aggregate Unfunded Liabilities in excess of $100,000,000.
Material Plan
"" means any Restricted Subsidiary in which the Borrower has an Investment, direct or indirect, of at least $10,000,000.
Material Subsidiary
"" means, as to each Lender, March 26, 2017, as such date may be extended pursuant to Section 2.21.
Maturity Date
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which any member of the ERISA Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions or has within the preceding five years made contributions, including for these purposes any Person which ceased to be a member of the ERISA Group during such five year period.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, as to the Borrower at any date, the sum of (i) preferred stock, (ii) the face amount of Hybrid Securities outstanding at such date, not in excess of 15% of Total Capitalization, (iii) par value of common stock, (iv) capital in excess of par value of common stock, (v) stockholders' equity and (vi) retained earnings less treasury stock of the Borrower, all as determined on a consolidated basis.
Net Worth
 
"" means a promissory note made by the Borrower payable to a Lender pursuant to Section 2.10(e).
Note
"" means, with respect to any Recipient, Taxes imposed as a result of a present or former connection between such Recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (other than connections arising from such Recipient having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Loan Document, or sold or assigned an interest in any Loan or Loan Document).
Other Connection Taxes
"" means (a) with respect to Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Loans occurring on such date; and (b) with respect to any LC Exposure on any date, the amount of such LC Exposure on such date after giving effect to any Letters of Credit issued, renewed, extended, or increased on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the LC Exposure as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements of outstanding unpaid drawings under any Letters of Credit or any reductions in the maximum amount available for drawing under Letters of Credit taking effect on such date.
Outstanding Amount
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Other Taxes
"" means, with respect to any Lender, any Person as to which such Lender is, directly or indirectly, a subsidiary.
Parent
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.
Participant
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.
Participant Register
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
"" means, with respect to the Borrower, any of the following officers: Chairman of the Board, President, Secretary, Treasurer, any Vice President, or Director, Treasury Operations. If any of the titles of the preceding officers are changed after the date hereof, the term "Principal Officer" shall thereafter mean any officer performing substantially the same functions as are currently performed by one or more of the officers listed in the first sentence of this definition.
Principal Officer
 
"" means, with respect to any certificate covering financial statements, a qualification to such certificate (such as a "subject to" or "except for" statement therein) (a) resulting from a limitation on the scope of examination of such financial statements or the underlying data, (b) as to the capability of the Person whose financial statements are certified to continue operations as a going concern or (c) which could be eliminated by changes in financial statements or notes thereto covered by such certificate (such as by the creation of or increase in a reserve or a decrease in the carrying value of assets) and which if so eliminated by the making of any such change and after giving effect thereto would occasion a Default; provided that neither of the following shall constitute a Qualification: (i) a consistency exception relating to a change in accounting principles with which the independent public accountants for the Person whose financial statements are being certified have concurred or (ii) a qualification relating to the outcome or disposition of threatened litigation, pending litigation being contested in good faith, pending or threatened claims or other contingencies, the impact of which litigation, claims or contingencies cannot be determined with sufficient certainty to permit quantification in such financial statements.
Qualification
"" means (a) the Administrative Agent, (b) any Lender and (c) any Issuing Bank, as applicable.
Recipient
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.
Register
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, administrators and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time.
Required Lenders
"" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or of any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such capital stock.
Restricted Payment
"" means any Subsidiary other than an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its LC Exposure and Swingline Exposure at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.03.
Revolving Loan
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Significant Issuing Bank
"" Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC business.
S&P
 
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D of the Board. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D of the Board or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
"" means any subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Borrower or the Subsidiaries shall be a Swap Agreement.
Swap Agreement
provided
"" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Swingline Exposure at such time.
Swingline Exposure
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder.
Swingline Lender
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.05.
Swingline Loan
"" means The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Syndication Agent
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, fees, assessments, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
"" means, as to the Borrower at any date, the sum of Debt (determined at such date) and the Net Worth (determined as at the end of the most recent fiscal quarter of the Borrower for which financial statements pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or Section 5.01(b), as applicable, have been delivered).
Total Capitalization
 
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, the borrowing of Loans, the use of the proceeds thereof and the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" means, with respect to any Plan at any time, the amount (if any) by which (a) the present value of all benefits under such Plan exceeds (b) the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such benefits (excluding any accrued but unpaid contributions), all determined as of the then most recent valuation date for such Plan, but only to the extent that such excess represents a potential liability of a member of the ERISA Group to the PBGC or any other Person under Title IV of ERISA.
Unfunded Liabilities
"" means any Subsidiary that is, from time to time, declared to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary by the Borrower in a writing to the Administrative Agent; provided that no Subsidiary may be designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary if (a) on the effective date of designation, a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, or (b) a Default or Event of Default would result from such designation.
Unrestricted Subsidiary
SECTION 1.02. . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (.., a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (.., a "Eurodollar Loan") or by Class and Type (.., a "Eurodollar Revolving Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (.., a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (.., a "Eurodollar Borrowing") or by Class and Type (.., a "Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
e
g
e
g
e
g
e
g
e
g
e
g
SECTION 1.03. . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". The word "law" shall be construed as referring to all statutes, rules, regulations, codes and other laws (including official rulings and interpretations thereunder having the force of law or with which affected Persons customarily comply), and all judgments, orders and decrees, of all Governmental Authorities. Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, restatements, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any definition of or reference to any statute, rule or regulation shall be construed as referring thereto as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (including by succession of comparable successor laws), (c) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns (subject to any restrictions on assignment set forth herein) and, in the case of any Governmental Authority, any other Governmental Authority that shall have succeeded to any or all functions thereof, (d) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (e) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (f) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally
 
SECTION 1.04. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), then the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such provision to preserve the original intent thereof; that, regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature used herein shall be construed, and all computations of amounts and ratios referred to herein shall be made (i) without giving effect to any election under Accounting Standards Codification 825-10-25 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any Indebtedness or other liabilities of the Borrower or any Subsidiary at "fair value", as defined therein and (ii) without giving effect to any treatment of Indebtedness in respect of convertible debt instruments under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20 (or any other Accounting Standards Codification or Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any such Indebtedness in a reduced or bifurcated manner as described therein, and such Indebtedness shall at all times be valued at the full stated principal amount thereof.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
provided
SECTION 2.01. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
Commitments
SECTION 2.02. . (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required. Any Swingline Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.05.
Loans and Borrowings
provided
(b) Subject to Section 2.14, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Swingline Loan shall be an ABR Loan. Each Lender at its option may make any Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000. At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $100,000 and not less than $500,000;
provided
 
that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.06(e). Each Swingline Loan shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $100,000 and not less than $500,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of five Eurodollar Revolving Borrowings outstanding.
provided
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
SECTION 2.03. . To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in the form of Exhibit F. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
Requests for Revolving Borrowings
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing;
(iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
(v) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.07.
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04. [RESERVED].
SECTION 2.05. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $50,000,000 or (ii) the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments; that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
Swingline Loans
provided
 
(b) To request a Swingline Loan, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received from the Borrower. The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to the Borrower by means of a credit to the general deposit account of the Borrower with the Swingline Lender (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.06(e), by remittance to the applicable Issuing Bank) by 4:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan.
(c) The Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Swingline Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of Swingline Loans in which Lenders will participate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swingline Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swingline Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.07 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.07 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swingline Lender. Any amounts received by the Swingline Lender from the Borrower (or other party on behalf of the Borrower) in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by the Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear; provided that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to the Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.
mutatis mutandis
SECTION 2.06. . (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for its own account, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by the Borrower to, or entered into by the Borrower with, the applicable Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.
Letters of Credit
General
(b) To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions.
 
arrangements for doing so have been approved by the applicable Issuing Bank) to such Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (three Business Days in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension or such later date and time as the applicable Issuing Bank may agree in a particular instance in its sole discretion) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by an Issuing Bank, the Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on such Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) the LC Exposure shall not exceed $600,000,000 and (ii) the total Revolving Credit Exposures shall not exceed the total Commitments. No single Issuing Bank shall have an obligation to issue Letters of Credit in an aggregate amount that exceeds the lesser of (i) one-fifth of the total Commitments and (ii) $120,000,000.
(c) Subject to the terms set forth below in this Section 2.06(c), each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date twenty-four months after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, twenty-four months after such renewal or extension) and (ii) the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date. If the Borrower so requests in any Letter of Credit Application, the applicable Issuing Bank may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic renewal provisions (each, an ""); provided that any such Auto Extension Letter of Credit must permit such Issuing Bank to prevent any such renewal at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the applicable Issuing Bank, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to such Issuing Bank for any such renewal. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the applicable Issuing Bank to permit the renewal of such Letter of Credit at any time to a date not later than (A) the fifth Business Day prior to the Maturity Date or (B) if the Borrower has deposited cash collateral with the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.06(j) below in an amount equal to the Outstanding Amount of such Letter of Credit on or prior to the fifth Business Day prior to the Maturity Date, then one year after the Maturity Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Issuing Bank shall permit any such renewal if (1) such Issuing Bank would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its renewed form under the terms hereof, or (2) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) at least five Business Days prior to the Business Day immediately preceding the Non-Extension Notice Date (y) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such renewal or (z) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in Section 4.02 is not then satisfied. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the applicable Issuing Bank shall have no obligation to permit the renewal of any Auto-Extension Letter of Credit at any time.
Expiration Date; Auto-Extension.
Auto Extension Letter of Credit
Non Extension Notice Date
(d) By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) by an Issuing Bank and without any further action on the part of such Issuing Bank or the Lenders, such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In
Participations.
 
consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
(e) If an Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit issued by it, the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such LC Disbursement not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date that such LC Disbursement is made, if the Borrower shall have received notice of such LC Disbursement prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date, or, if such notice has not been received by the Borrower prior to such time on such date, then not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Business Day immediately following the day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt; that the Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 or 2.05 that such payment be financed with an ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan in an equivalent amount of such LC Disbursement and, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan. If the Borrower fails to make such payment when due, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due from the Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.07 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.07 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the applicable Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the applicable Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and the applicable Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans or a Swingline Loan as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement.
Reimbursement.
provided
mutatis mutandis
(f) . The Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder. Neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor the Issuing Banks, nor any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in
Obligations Absolute
 
connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of any Issuing Bank; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse any applicable Issuing Bank from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable Law) suffered by the Borrower that are caused by such Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), such Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, each Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
provided
(g) Each Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. Such Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether such Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement.
Disbursement Procedures.
provided
(h)  If an Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans; that, if the Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then Section 2.13(d) shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest.
provided
(i) [].
Reserved
(j)
Cash Collateralization.
(i) If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders (or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure) demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders (""), an amount in cash equal to the LC Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that the obligation to
Cash Collateral Account
provided
 
deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of Article VII.
(ii) If an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit (or any other Letter of Credit, regardless of whether such Letter of Credit would be permitted hereunder) has an expiry date after the fifth Business Day prior to the Maturity Date, the Borrower shall, on such Business Day, deposit in the Cash Collateral Account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to the Outstanding Amount of such Letter of Credit plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
(iii) If, as of the last occurring Maturity Date, any Letter of Credit may for any reason remain outstanding and partially or wholly undrawn, the Borrower shall, upon the request of the Administrative Agent (made at the request of the Required Lenders), immediately cause the amount of cash on deposit with the Administrative Agent in the Cash Collateral Account to equal at least 103% of the Outstanding Amount of all Letters of Credit determined as of the last occurring Maturity Date.
(iv) Deposits required under this Section 2.06(j) shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such Cash Collateral Account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such Cash Collateral Account. Moneys in such Cash Collateral Account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank for LC Disbursements for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated (but subject to the consent of Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure), be applied to satisfy other obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral under clause (i) above, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid and to the extent such amount is not applied to the cash collateral requirement set forth in the second sentence of this Section 2.06(j)) shall be returned to the Borrower within three Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived.
(k) . Each Issuing Bank agrees that, unless otherwise requested by the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank shall report in writing to the Administrative Agent (i) periodic activity (for such period or recurrent periods as shall be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent) in respect of Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, including all issuances, extensions, amendments and renewals, all expirations and cancellations and all disbursements and reimbursements, (ii) on or prior to each Business Day on which such Issuing Bank expects to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, the date of such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension, and the aggregate face amount of the Letters of Credit to be issued, amended, renewed or extended by it and outstanding after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension occurred (and whether the amount thereof changed), it being understood that such Issuing Bank shall not permit any issuance,
Issuing Bank Agreements
 
renewal, extension or amendment resulting in an increase in the amount of any Letter of Credit to occur without first obtaining written confirmation from the Administrative Agent that it is then permitted under this Agreement, (iii) on each Business Day on which such Issuing Bank makes any LC Disbursement, the date of such LC Disbursement and the amount of such LC Disbursement, (iv) on any Business Day on which the Borrower fails to reimburse an LC Disbursement required to be reimbursed to such Issuing Bank on such day, the date of such failure and the amount of such LC Disbursement and (v) on any other Business Day, such other information as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request.
(l) . The Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to be Letters of Credit issued hereunder.
Existing Letters of Credit
SECTION 2.07. . (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 2:00 p.m., New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders; that Swingline Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.05. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City and designated by the Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request; that ABR Revolving Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.06(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the applicable Issuing Bank.
Funding of Borrowings
provided
provided
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing (or, in the case of an ABR Borrowing, prior to 1:00 p.m. New York City time on the date of such Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to such Borrowing. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
SECTION 2.08. . (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Swingline Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
Interest Elections
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be
 
required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in the form of . Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein, this Section shall not be construed to permit the Borrower to elect an Interest Period for Eurodollar Loans that does not comply with Section 2.02(d).
Exhibit F
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which Interest Period shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
SECTION 2.09. . (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments
(b) The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.11, the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or
 
reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
provided
SECTION 2.10. . (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan on the Maturity Date, and (ii) to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the seventh day after such Swingline Loan is made; that on each date that a Revolving Borrowing is made, the Borrower shall repay all Swingline Loans then outstanding.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
provided
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima facie
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Administrative Agent shall prepare, and the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns). Such promissory note shall be in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
SECTION 2.11. . (a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
Prepayment of Loans
(b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline Lender) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m.,
 
New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of prepayment or (iii) in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.09, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.09. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.13.
provided
SECTION 2.12. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the Available Revolving Commitment of such Lender during the period from and including the date of this Agreement to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates. Accrued commitment fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that any commitment fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All commitment fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Fees
provided
(b) The Borrower agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the same Applicable Rate used to determine the interest rate applicable to Eurodollar Revolving Loans on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure, and (ii) to the applicable Issuing Bank for its own account a fronting fee, which shall accrue at a rate per annum separately agreed upon by the Borrower and the applicable Issuing Bank on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) attributable to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as the applicable Issuing Bank's standard fees and commissions with respect to the issuance, amendment, cancellation, negotiation, transfer, presentment, commissions, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees accrued through and including the last day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable on the third Business Day following such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to the Issuing Banks pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within 10 days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
(c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
 
(d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent (or to the applicable Issuing Bank, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution, in the case of commitment fees and participation fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
SECTION 2.13. . (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
Interest
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate.
(c) Each Swingline Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (i) until the Lenders have been required to acquire participations in such Swingline Loan pursuant to Section 2.05(c), the lesser of (A) the rate agreed to between the Swingline Lender and the Borrower and (B) the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate and (ii) after the Lenders have been required to acquire participations in such Swingline Loan pursuant to Section 2.05(c), the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(e) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Revolving Loans, upon termination of the Commitments; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
(f) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
SECTION 2.14. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or
 
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective and any such Eurodollar Borrowing shall be repaid on the last day of the then current Interest Period applicable thereto and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing.
SECTION 2.15. . (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or any Issuing Bank;
(ii) impose on any Lender or Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein; or
(iii) subject any Recipient to any Taxes (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes, (B) Taxes described in clauses (b) through (f) of the definition of Excluded Taxes, (C) Connection Income Taxes and (D) Other Taxes) on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to the Administrative Agent or such Lender of making, continuing, converting or maintaining any Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate the Administrative Agent, such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank (which determination shall be made in good faith (and not on an arbitrary or capricious basis) and consistent with similarly situated customers of the Administrative Agent, the applicable Lender or the applicable Issuing Bank under agreements having provisions similar to this Section 2.15 after consideration of such factors as the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank then reasonably determines to be relevant).
(b) If any Lender or Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital or liquidity requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such
 
Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy and liquidity), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered as reasonably determined by such Lender or such Issuing Bank (which determination shall be made in good faith (and not on an arbitrary or capricious basis) and consistent with similarly situated customers of the applicable Lender or the applicable Issuing Bank under agreements having provisions similar to this Section 2.15 after consideration of such factors as such Lender or such Issuing Bank then reasonably determines to be relevant).
(c) A certificate of a Lender or Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof, but only if the Borrower receives a demand for payment hereunder within 180 days of the date of the Change in Law.
provided
provided further
SECTION 2.16. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default or as a result of any prepayment pursuant to Section 2.11), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.11(b) and is revoked in accordance therewith) or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.19, then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. Such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments
 
SECTION 2.17. . (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if the Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions for such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including deductions of Indemnified Taxes and Other Taxes applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Law.
Taxes
provided
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Law.
(c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank, within 30 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority; provided that such indemnity shall not be made to the extent Indemnified Taxes, Other Taxes, penalties or interest are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the applicable indemnitee.A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or an Issuing Bank, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or an Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of any receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e) Each Foreign Lender on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Foreign Lender listed on the signature pages hereof and on or prior to the date on which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Foreign Lender, and from time to time thereafter if requested in writing by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent (but only so long as such Foreign Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with (i) if such Lender is a "" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, IRS Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, as appropriate, or any successor form prescribed by the IRS, certifying that such Lender is entitled to benefits under an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party which exempts United States withholding tax on payments made to it under this Agreement or certifying that the income receivable pursuant to this Agreement is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, (ii) if such Lender is not a "" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code and intends to claim an exemption from United States withholding tax under Section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code with respect to payments of "," a Form W-8BEN, or any successor or other applicable form prescribed by the IRS, and a certificate representing that such Lender is not a bank for purposes of Section 881(c) of the Code, is not a 10-percent shareholder (within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code) of the Borrower, and is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower (within the meaning of Section 864(d)(4) of the Code) and (iii) in the
bank
bank
portfolio interest
 
case of a Lender described in either subsection (i) or (ii), IRS Form W-8BEN with respect to any other applicable payments under any Loan Document establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "business profits" or "other income" article of an applicable tax treaty. Each Lender which so delivers a Form W-8BEN, or W-8ECI further undertakes to deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent additional forms (or a successor form) on or before the date such form expires or becomes obsolete or after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent form so delivered by it, in each case certifying that such Foreign Lender is entitled to receive payments from the Borrower under any Loan Document without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, unless an event (including without limitation any change in treaty, law, or regulation) has occurred prior to the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required which renders all such forms inapplicable or which would prevent such Lender from duly completing and delivering any such form with respect to it and such Lender advises the Borrower and the Administrative Agent that it is not capable of receiving such payments without any deduction or withholding of United States federal income tax.
(f) Each Lender, other than a Foreign Lender, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of a Lender listed on the signature pages hereof and on or prior to the date on which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, shall deliver to each of the Borrower and Administrative Agent, an IRS Form W-9 certifying to its U.S. tax identification number or claiming exemption from information reporting and backup withholding requirements under the Code.
(g) In addition, each Lender and the Administrative Agent agree to the extent it is permitted by applicable law, to provide Borrower with such other tax forms that Borrower may request from Lender in writing that are necessary to avoid or reduce Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes arising with respect to the payments or transactions under this Agreement.
(h) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.17, it shall pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.17 with respect to the Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); , that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2.17(h), in no event will any indemnified party be required to pay any amount to any indemnifying party pursuant to this Section 2.17(h) if such payment would place such indemnified party in a less favorable position (on a net after-Tax basis) than such indemnified party would have been in if the indemnification payments or additional amounts giving rise to such refund had never been paid. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
provided
(i) If a payment made to a Recipient under any Loan Document would be subject to U.S. Federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Recipient were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Recipient shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by
 
Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as may be necessary for the Borrower and the Administrative Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Recipient has complied with such Recipient's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this Section 2.17(i), "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
(j) Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Administrative Agent, within 10 days after demand therefor, for (i) any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes attributable to such Lender (but only to the extent that the Borrower has not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so), (ii) any Taxes attributable to such Lender's failure to comply with the provisions of Section 9.04(c) relating to the maintenance of a Participant Register and (iii) any Excluded Taxes attributable to such Lender, in each case, that are payable or paid by the Administrative Agent in connection with any Loan Document, and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to any Lender by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Each Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under any Loan Document or otherwise payable by the Administrative Agent to the Lender from any other source against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this Section 2.17(j).
(k) For purposes of this Section 2.17, the term Lender includes any Issuing Bank.
SECTION 2.18. . (a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.15, 2.16 or 2.17, or otherwise) prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 10 South Dearborn Street, 7
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs
th
Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603, except payments to be made directly to the applicable Issuing Bank or Swingline Lender as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars.
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties.
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion
 
of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the Issuing Banks hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the Issuing Banks, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the Issuing Banks, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(c), 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b), 2.18(d) or 9.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), (i) apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender and for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender or any Issuing Bank to satisfy such Lender's obligations to it under such Section until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid and/or (ii) hold any such amounts in a segregated account as cash collateral for, and application to, any future funding obligations of such Lender under any such Section; in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii) above, in any order as determined by the Administrative Agent in its discretion.
SECTION 2.19. . (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.17, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
 
(b) If (i) any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, (ii) the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17 or (iii) any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04, with the Borrower or replacement Lender obligated to pay any applicable processing or recordation fee), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and if a Commitment is being assigned, the Issuing Banks), which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.15 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.17, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
provided
SECTION 2.20. . The Borrower may from time to time request that any one or more of the Lenders increase their respective Commitments or request that other Persons that are Eligible Assignees, agree to make a new Commitment; provided that the aggregate amount of such increases and new Commitments may not exceed $500,000,000. Each increased or new Commitment resulting in an increase in the aggregate Commitments shall be effected by a Commitment Increase Agreement (herein so called) substantially in the form of Exhibit D or a Joinder Agreement (herein so called) substantially in the form of Exhibit E, as applicable, executed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the existing Lender that has agreed to increase its Commitment or the new Lender that has agreed to a new Commitment, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no increase in the Commitments (or in the Commitment of any Lender) shall become effective under this paragraph unless, (i) on the proposed date of the effectiveness of such increase, (A) the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 shall be satisfied or waived by the Required Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect dated such date and executed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower and (B) the Borrower shall be in compliance (on a pro forma basis) with the covenants contained in Section 6.10 and (ii) the Administrative Agent shall have received documents consistent with those delivered on the Effective Date as to the corporate power and authority of the Borrower to borrow hereunder after giving effect to such increase. None of the Lenders shall be obligated to increase its Commitment. Promptly following each increase of the aggregate Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.20, the Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Borrower and the Lenders an amended Schedule 2.01 that gives effect to such increase. Concurrently with each increase in the aggregate Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.20, the Borrower shall prepay any Loans outstanding on such date (and pay any amounts required pursuant to Section 2.16) to the extent necessary to keep outstanding Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages of the Lenders effective as of such date. This Section shall supersede any provisions in Section 2.18 or 9.02 to the contrary.
Increases of Commitments
SECTION 2.21. .
Extension of Maturity Date
(a) . The Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) not earlier than 90 days and not later than 30 days prior to each anniversary of the date of this Agreement (each such date, an ""), request that each Lender extend such Lender's Maturity Date to the date that is one year after the last occurring Maturity Date then in effect for any Lender (the "").
Requests for Extension
Extension Date
Existing Maturity Date
 
(b) . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not later than the date that is 20 days after the date on which the Administrative Agent received the Borrower's extension request (the ""), advise the Administrative Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension (each Lender that determines to so extend its Maturity Date, an ""). Each Lender that determines not to so extend its Maturity Date (a "") shall notify the Administrative Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later than the Lender Notice Date), and any Lender that does not so advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Lender Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree.
Lender Elections to Extend
Lender Notice Date
Extending Lender
Non-Extending Lender
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than the date that is 15 days prior to the applicable Extension Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
Notification by Administrative Agent
(d) . The Borrower shall have the right, but shall not be obligated, on or before the applicable Maturity Date for any Non-Extending Lender to replace such Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more one or more Eligible Assignees (each, an ""), each of which Additional Commitment Lenders shall have entered into an Assignment and Assumption (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04, with the Borrower or replacement Lender obligated to pay any applicable processing or recordation fee) with such Non-Extending Lender, pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lenders shall, effective on or before the applicable Maturity Date for such Non-Extending Lender, assume a Commitment (and, if any such Additional Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Commitment shall be in addition to such Lender's Commitment hereunder on such date). Prior to any Non-Extending Lender being replaced by one or more Additional Commitment Lenders pursuant hereto, such Non-Extending Lender may elect, in its sole discretion, by giving irrevocable notice thereof to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (which notice shall set forth such Lender's new Maturity Date), to become an Extending Lender.
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
(e) . If (and only if) the total of the Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed to extend their Maturity Date (without regard to the new or increased Commitment of any Additional Commitment Lender) is equal to at least 50% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date, then, effective as of the applicable Extension Date, the Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date that is one year after the Existing Maturity Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement.
Minimum Extension Requirement
(f) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) no more than two (2) extensions of the Maturity Date shall be permitted hereunder and (y) any extension of any Maturity Date pursuant to this Section 2.21 shall not be effective with respect to any Lender unless:
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extension
(i) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the applicable Extension Date and immediately after giving effect thereto; and
 
(ii) the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in Article III are true and correct in all material respects (or in all respects if such representation is qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect) on and as of the applicable Extension Date and after giving effect thereto, as though made on and as of such date (or, if any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of an earlier date, as of such earlier date).
(g) . On the date that any Non-Extending Lender ceases to be a Lender hereunder, the Borrower shall pay all obligations hereunder owing to such Non-Extending Lender (to the extent such obligations have not been purchased by one or more Additional Commitment Lenders).
Payment of Non-Extending Lenders
(h) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in Section 2.18 or 9.02 to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
SECTION 2.22. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
Defaulting Lenders
(a) fees shall cease to accrue on the unfunded portion of the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.12(a);
(b) the Commitment and Revolving Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment, waiver or other modification pursuant to Section 9.02); , that this clause (b) shall not apply to the vote of a Defaulting Lender in the case of an amendment, waiver or other modification requiring the consent of such Lender or each Lender affected thereby;
provided
(c) if any Swingline Exposure or LC Exposure exists at the time such Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender then:
(i) all or any part of the Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall be reallocated among the non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages but only to the extent (A) the sum of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Revolving Credit Exposures plus such Defaulting Lender's Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure does not exceed the total of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Commitments, (B) each non-Defaulting Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure does not exceed such non-Defaulting Lender's Commitment and (C) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
(ii) if the reallocation described in clause (i) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Borrower shall within two (2) Business Days following notice by the Administrative Agent (x) , prepay such Swingline Exposure and (y) , cash collateralize for the benefit of the applicable Issuing Banks only the Borrower's obligations corresponding to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure (after giving effect to any partial reallocation pursuant to clause (i) above) in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.06(j) for so long as such LC Exposure is outstanding;
first
second
 
(iii) if the Borrower cash collateralizes any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure pursuant to clause (ii) above, the Borrower shall not be required to pay any fees to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.12(b) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure during the period such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is cash collateralized;
(iv) if the LC Exposure of the non-Defaulting Lenders is reallocated pursuant to clause (i) above, then the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.12(a) and Section 2.12(b) shall be adjusted in accordance with such non-Defaulting Lenders' Applicable Percentages; and
(v) if all or any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is neither reallocated nor cash collateralized pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) above, then, without prejudice to any rights or remedies of any Issuing Bank or any other Lender hereunder, all letter of credit fees payable under Section 2.12(b) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure shall be payable to the applicable Issuing Banks until and to the extent that such LC Exposure is reallocated and/or cash collateralized; and
(d) so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender, the Swingline Lender shall not be required to fund any Swingline Loan and no Issuing Bank shall be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit, unless it is satisfied that the related exposure and the Defaulting Lender's then outstanding LC Exposure will be 100% covered by the Commitments of the non-Defaulting Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the Borrower in accordance with Section 2.21(c), and participating interests in any such newly made Swingline Loan or any newly issued or increased Letter of Credit shall be allocated among non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with Section 2.21(c)(i) (and such Defaulting Lender shall not participate therein).
If (i) a Bankruptcy Event with respect to a Parent of any Lender shall occur following the date hereof and for so long as such event shall continue or (ii) the Swingline Lender or any Issuing Bank has a good faith belief that any Lender has defaulted in fulfilling its obligations under one or more other agreements in which such Lender commits to extend credit, the Swingline Lender shall not be required to fund any Swingline Loan and no Issuing Bank shall be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit, unless the Swingline Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, shall have entered into arrangements with the Borrower or such Lender, satisfactory to the Swingline Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, to defease any risk to it in respect of such Lender hereunder.
In the event that the Administrative Agent, the Borrower, the Swingline Lender and the Issuing Banks each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Commitment and on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Loans of the other Lenders (other than Swingline Loans) as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent that:
SECTION 3.01. . The Borrower and each Material Subsidiary (a) is a corporation or partnership duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (b) has all corporate or partnership powers and
Corporate or Partnership Existence and Power
 
all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to own or lease its assets and carry on its business and (c) is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or partnership and in good standing in each jurisdiction where qualification is required by the nature of its business or the character and location of its property, business or customers, except, as to clauses (b) and (c), where the failure so to qualify or to have such licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals, in the aggregate, could not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.02. . The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, the Notes and the other Loan Documents are within the Borrower's corporate power, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any Governmental Authority and do not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable Law or of the certificate of incorporation or by-laws (or other organizational documents) of the Borrower or of any agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding upon the Borrower which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or result in or require the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, except for a Lien permitted hereby.
Corporate and Governmental Authorization; No Contravention
SECTION 3.03. . This Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Borrower; and the Notes and the other Loan Documents, when executed and delivered in accordance with this Agreement, will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, in each case enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by Debtor Relief Laws.
Binding Effect
SECTION 3.04. .
Financial Information
(a) The audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in stockholders' equity for the fiscal year then ended, reported on by KPMG LLP, a copy of which has been delivered to each of the Lenders, fairly present in all material respects, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, the consolidated financial position of Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date and their consolidated results of operations, cash flows and changes in stockholders' equity for such fiscal year.
(b) [Reserved.]
(c) There has been no change since December 31, 2011 which has had or could be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.05. . There is no action, suit, proceeding or arbitration pending against, or to the knowledge of the Borrower threatened against or affecting, the Borrower or any Subsidiary before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official in which there is a reasonable likelihood of an adverse decision which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which has been brought by the Borrower or any Subsidiary and which in any manner questions the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, the Notes or any of the other Loan Documents.
Litigation
SECTION 3.06. . Each member of the ERISA Group has fulfilled its obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan and is in compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan. No member of the ERISA Group has (a) sought a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Code in respect of any Plan, (b) failed to make any contribution or payment to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or made any amendment to any Plan which in
Compliance with ERISA
 
either case has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien or the posting of a bond or other security under ERISA or the Code or (c) incurred any liability under Title IV of ERISA other than a liability to the PBGC for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA.
SECTION 3.07. . In the ordinary course of its business, the Borrower conducts an ongoing review of the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated liabilities and costs (including any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up or closure of properties presently or previously owned, any capital or operating expenditures required to achieve or maintain compliance with environmental protection standards imposed by Law or as a condition of any license, permit or contract, any related constraints on operating activities, including any periodic or permanent shutdown of any facility or reduction in the level of or change in the nature of operations conducted thereat and any actual or potential liabilities to third parties, including employees, and any related costs and expenses). On the basis of this review, the Borrower has reasonably concluded that Environmental Laws are unlikely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Environmental Matters
SECTION 3.08. . United States Federal income tax returns of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have been examined and closed through the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. The Borrower and each Subsidiary have filed all United States Federal income tax returns and all other material tax returns that are required to be filed by them and have paid all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by any of them, except for any such taxes being diligently contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings. Adequate reserves have been provided on the books of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in respect of all taxes or other governmental charges in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and no tax liabilities in excess of the amount so provided are anticipated that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
SECTION 3.09. . Taken as a whole, all written information (other than financial projections and general economic or specific industry information developed by or obtained from third-party resources) heretofore furnished by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender for purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby was, and all such information hereafter furnished by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender will be, true and accurate in every material respect, and all financial projections concerning the Borrower and its Subsidiaries that have been or hereafter will be prepared by the Borrower and furnished to the Administrative Agent or any Lender have been and will be prepared in good faith based on assumptions believed by the Borrower, at the time of preparation, to be reasonable (it being understood that such projections are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Borrower's control, that no assurance can be given that such projections will be realized and that actual results may vary materially from such projections).
Full Disclosure
SECTION 3.10. . The Borrower and each Material Subsidiary are in compliance with all applicable Laws other than such Laws (a) the validity or applicability of which the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary is contesting in good faith or (b) the failure to comply with which cannot reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
SECTION 3.11. . The Borrower is not an "investment company, " within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Regulated Status
 
SECTION 4.01. . The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Effective Date
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy or electronic transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received favorable written opinions (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of (i) Vinson & Elkins LLP, counsel for the Borrower, and (ii) Senior Counsel of the Borrower, covering such other matters relating to the Borrower, this Agreement or the Transactions as the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent shall reasonably request. The Borrower hereby requests such counsels to deliver such opinions.
(c) The Lenders shall have received satisfactory financial statement projections through and including the Borrower's 2017 fiscal year, together with such information as the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall reasonably request (including, without limitation, a detailed description of the assumptions used in preparing such projections).
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Borrower, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Borrower, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel and as further described in the list of closing documents attached as .
Exhibit G
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Borrower, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
(f) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder.
(g) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that the credit facilities evidenced by (a) the Existing Credit Agreement and (b) the Credit Agreement dated as of January 13, 2010, as heretofore amended, among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, have been or concurrently with the Effective Date are being terminated, and that all outstanding amounts owing to the lenders thereunder have been or concurrently with the Effective Date are being paid in full.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
SECTION 4.02. . The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of the Issuing Banks to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event
 
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects (or in all respects if such representation is qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect) on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, except that (i) to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall have been true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and (ii) the representations and warranties set forth in Section 3.04(c) and 3.05 shall be required to be true and correct in all material respects only on the occasion of any Borrowing or issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit which has the effect of increasing the outstanding principal amount of the obligations hereunder.
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 5.01. . The Borrower will deliver to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
Information
(a) within 60 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, an audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and the related consolidated statements of income, of cash flows and of changes in stockholders' equity for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures as of the end of and for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and reported on without Qualification by KPMG LLP or other independent public accountants of nationally recognized standing;
(b) within 40 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income for such quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year ended at the end of such quarter and the related consolidated statement of cash flows for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year ended at the end of such quarter, setting forth in each case in comparative form the consolidated balance sheet as of the end of the previous fiscal year and the consolidated statements of income for the corresponding quarter and the corresponding portion of the Borrower's previous fiscal year, all certified (subject to normal year-end adjustments) as to fairness of presentation and consistency by the Financial Officer of the Borrower;
 
(c) simultaneously with the delivery of each set of financial statements referred to in Sections 5.01(a) and (b), a Compliance Certificate of the Financial Officer of the Borrower (i) setting forth in reasonable detail such calculations as are required to establish whether the Borrower was in compliance with the requirements of Section 6.10 and stating whether the Borrower was in compliance with the requirements of Sections 6.01(g), 6.05(b) and 6.07 on the date of such financial statements and (ii) stating whether there exists on the date of such certificate any Default or Event of Default and, if any Default or Event of Default then exists, setting forth the details thereof and the action that the Borrower is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;
(d) simultaneously with the delivery of each set of financial statements referred to in Sections 5.01(a) and (b), a schedule, certified as to its accuracy and completeness by the Financial Officer of the Borrower, listing in reasonable detail the Debt balance of each Restricted Subsidiary where such Debt balance is in excess of $10,000,000, listing only Debt instruments of $10,000,000 or more; provided that no such schedule need be furnished if at the date of the related financial statements (i) the aggregate amount of Debt of domestic Restricted Subsidiaries did not exceed $50,000,000 and (ii) the aggregate amount of Debt of all Restricted Subsidiaries did not exceed $100,000,000;
(e) within five Business Days after any Principal Officer of the Borrower obtains knowledge of any Default or Event of Default, if such Default or Event of Default is then continuing, a certificate of the Financial Officer of the Borrower setting forth the details thereof and the action that the Borrower is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;
(f) promptly upon the mailing thereof to the stockholders of the Borrower generally, copies of all financial statements, reports and proxy statements so mailed;
(g) promptly upon the filing thereof, copies of all registration statements (other than the exhibits thereto and any registration statements on Form S-8 or its equivalent), annual, quarterly or monthly reports and any reports on Form 8-K (or any successor form) that the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(h) within 14 days after any member of the ERISA Group (i) gives or is required to give notice to the PBGC of any "reportable event" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to any Plan which might constitute grounds for a termination of such Plan under Title IV of ERISA, or knows that the plan administrator of any Plan has given or is required to give notice of any such reportable event, a copy of the notice of such reportable event given or required to be given to the PBGC; (ii) receives notice of complete or partial withdrawal liability under Title IV of ERISA which liability exceeds $10,000,000 or notice that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization, is insolvent or has been terminated, a copy of such notice; (iii) receives notice from the PBGC under Title IV of ERISA of an intent to terminate, impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or appoint a trustee to administer, any Plan, a copy of such notice; (iv) applies for a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Code, a copy of such application; (v) gives notice of intent to terminate any Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, a copy of such notice and other information filed with the PBGC; (vi) gives notice of withdrawal from any Plan pursuant to Section 4063 of ERISA, a copy of such notice; or (vii) fails to make any payment or contribution to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or makes any amendment to any Plan which in either case has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien or the posting of a bond or other security, a certificate of the Financial Officer of the Borrower setting forth details as to such occurrence and the action, if any, which the Borrower or applicable member of the ERISA Group is required or proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(i) as soon as practicable after a Principal Officer of the Borrower obtains knowledge of the commencement of an action, suit or proceeding against the Borrower or any Subsidiary before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official in which there is a reasonable likelihood of an adverse decision which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which in any manner questions the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, information as to the nature of such pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding;
(j) promptly after a Principal Officer of the Borrower obtains knowledge that Moody's or S&P shall have announced a change in the rating established or deemed to have been established for the Index Debt, written notice of such rating change; and
(k) from time to time such additional information regarding the business, properties, financial position, results of operations, or prospects of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as the Administrative Agent, at the request of any Lender, may reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to clauses (a) and (b) of this Section 5.01 may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which such documents are filed for public availability on the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System; provided that the Borrower shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent of the filing of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (i.e., soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the compliance certificates required by clause (c) of this Section 5.01 to the Administrative Agent.
SECTION 5.02. . The Borrower will pay and discharge, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, at or before maturity, all their respective material obligations and liabilities and all lawful taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its property or assets, except where the same may be diligently contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to so pay and discharge could not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and will maintain, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, appropriate reserves for the accrual of any of the same.
Payment of Obligations
SECTION 5.03. .
Maintenance of Property; Insurance
(a) The Borrower will keep, and will cause each Restricted Subsidiary to keep, all material property useful and necessary in its business in good working order and condition, normal wear and tear excepted.
(b) The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, maintain (either in the name of the Borrower or in such Material Subsidiary's own name) with financially sound and responsible insurance companies, insurance on all their respective properties in at least such amounts and against at least such risks (and with such risk retention) as are usually maintained in the same general area by companies of established repute engaged in the same or a similar business; and will furnish to the Lenders, upon request from the Administrative Agent, information presented in reasonable detail as to the insurance so carried.
 
SECTION 5.04. . The Borrower will keep, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries shall be made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. Subject to Section 9.12, the Borrower will permit, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to permit, representatives of any Lender to visit and inspect any of their respective properties, to examine their respective corporate, financial and operating records and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss their respective affairs, finances and accounts with their respective directors, officers, employees and independent public accountants (provided that the Borrower shall have the right to participate in any discussions with such accountants), all at such reasonable times and as often as may reasonably be desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower.
Inspection of Property, Books and Records
SECTION 5.05. .
Maintenance of Existence, Rights, Etc
(a) The Borrower will preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its, and will cause each of its Restricted Subsidiaries to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect their, respective corporate or partnership existence and its and their respective rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of business, except when failure to do so could not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; provided that nothing in this Section 5.05 shall prohibit (i) a transaction permitted under Section 6.02 or (ii) the termination of the corporate or partnership existence of any Restricted Subsidiary (other than FMC Technologies B.V.) if the Borrower in good faith determines that such termination is in the best interest of the Borrower and could not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b) At no time will any Unrestricted Subsidiary hold, directly or indirectly, any capital stock of any Restricted Subsidiary.
SECTION 5.06. . The proceeds of the Borrowings under this Agreement will be used by the Borrower for working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful corporate purposes, including as support for the Borrower's commercial paper program and to repay certain existing Debt.
Use of Proceeds
SECTION 5.07. . The Borrower will comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects with all requirements of Law (including ERISA, Environmental Laws and the rules and regulations thereunder), except where failure to so comply could not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 6.01. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on any asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except:
Liens
(a) Liens existing on the date hereof and described on , securing Debt outstanding;
Schedule 6.01
 
(b) Liens incidental to the conduct of its business or the ownership of its assets which (i) arise in the ordinary course of business, (ii) do not secure Debt and (iii) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
(c) Liens in favor of the Borrower or any other Restricted Subsidiary;
(d) Liens on any property or assets existing at the time of, or incurred within 120 days after, the acquisition thereof (by purchase, merger or otherwise), securing Debt incurred to pay the purchase price or construction cost thereof, or the capital lease obligations related thereto, so long as such Liens do not and are not extended to cover any other property or assets;
(e) Liens in favor of a Governmental Authority to secure payments under any contract or statute, or to secure any Debt incurred in financing the acquisition, construction or improvement of property subject thereto, including Liens on, and created or arising in connection with the financing of the acquisition, construction or improvement of, any facility used or to be used in the business of the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary through the issuance of obligations, the income from which shall be excludable from gross income by virtue of Section 103 of the Code (or any subsequently adopted provisions thereof providing for a specific exclusion from gross income);
(f) any extension, renewal, substitution, or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals, substitutions or replacements), as a whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in clauses (a) through (e) above; provided that (i) such extension, renewal, substitution or replacement Lien shall be limited to all or any part of the same property or assets subject to the Lien extended, renewed, substituted or replaced (plus improvements on such property) and (ii) the Debt secured by such Lien at such time is not increased; and
(g) other Liens so long as the principal amount of the Debt of the Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries secured thereby does not exceed $75,000,000 in the aggregate at any time and so long as the principal amount of the Debt of the Borrower's Restricted Subsidiaries secured thereby does not exceed $25,000,000 in the aggregate at any time.
SECTION 6.02. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, merge or consolidate with or into, or sell, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) a material portion of its assets to, any Person, except that, so long as no Default or Event of Default then exists or would result therefrom:
Consolidations, Mergers and Sales of Assets
(a) any Restricted Subsidiary (other than FMC Technologies B.V.) may merge or consolidate with (i) the Borrower, provided that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, (ii) any other Restricted Subsidiary or (iii) any other Person if the Borrower in good faith determines that such merger or consolidation is in the best interest of the Borrower and would not have a Material Adverse Effect and, at least five days prior to such merger or consolidation (if the transaction value of such merger or consolidation is in the amount of $100,000,000 or more), the Borrower delivers to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Financial Officer of the Borrower showing pro forma compliance with the covenants set forth in Section 6.10, and stating pro forma compliance with the covenants set forth in Sections 6.01(g), 6.05(b) and 6.07, in each case after giving effect thereto;
 
(b) any Restricted Subsidiary (other than FMC Technologies B.V.) may sell, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of a material portion of its assets to (i) the Borrower, (ii) any other Restricted Subsidiary or (iii) any other Person if the Borrower in good faith determines that such sale is in the best interest of the Borrower and would not have a Material Adverse Effect and, at least five days prior to such sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition (if the transaction value of such sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition is in the amount of $100,000,000 or more), the Borrower delivers to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Financial Officer of the Borrower showing pro forma compliance with the covenants set forth in Section 6.10, and stating pro forma compliance with the covenants set forth in Sections 6.01(g), 6.05(b) and 6.07, in each case after giving effect thereto;
(c) the Borrower may merge or consolidate with any other Person, provided that (i) the Borrower is the continuing or surviving Person, (ii) the Borrower's Index Debt ratings are not less than BBB- by S&P or Baa3 by Moody's after giving effect thereto, and (iii) at least five days prior to such merger or consolidation (if the transaction value of such merger or consolidation is in the amount of $100,000,000 or more), the Borrower delivers to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Financial Officer of the Borrower showing pro forma compliance with the covenants set forth in Section 6.10, and stating pro forma compliance with the covenants set forth in Sections 6.01(g), 6.05(b) and 6.07, in each case after giving effect thereto; and
(d) the Borrower may sell, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of a material portion of its assets to any Person, provided that (i) the Borrower's Index Debt ratings are not less than BBB- by S&P or Baa3 by Moody's after giving effect thereto and (ii) at least five days prior to such sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition (if the transaction value of such sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition is in the amount of $100,000,000 or more), the Borrower delivers to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Financial Officer of the Borrower showing pro forma compliance with the covenants set forth in Section 6.10, and stating pro forma compliance with the covenants set forth in Sections 6.01(g), 6.05(b) and 6.07, in each case after giving effect thereto.
SECTION 6.03. . No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, in a manner that violates Regulation U or X of the Board. The Borrower will not permit more than 25% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries to consist of "margin stock," as such term is defined in Regulation U of the Board.
Use of Proceeds
SECTION 6.04. Reserved.
SECTION 6.05. . The Borrower will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Debt, except:
Restricted Subsidiary Debt
(a) Debt owed to the Borrower or any other Restricted Subsidiary; and
(b) other Debt in an aggregate principal amount for all Restricted Subsidiaries not exceeding $150,000,000 at any time.
SECTION 6.06. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, declare or make any Restricted Payment, except that:
Restricted Payments
(a) any Restricted Subsidiary may declare and make Restricted Payments to the Borrower or to any other Restricted Subsidiary (and, in the case of a Restricted Payment by a non-wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiary, to the Borrower or any other Restricted Subsidiary and to each other owner of capital stock of such Restricted Subsidiary on a pro-rata basis based on their relative ownership interests);
 
(b) the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary may declare and make Restricted Payments, payable in the Common Stock of such Person; and
(c) the Borrower may declare and make Restricted Payments to its stockholders provided that no Default or Event of Default exists at the time of the declaration thereof or would result therefrom.
SECTION 6.07. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, make Investments in Unrestricted Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount outstanding at any time in excess of $100,000,000 for all such Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
Investments in Unrestricted Subsidiaries
SECTION 6.08. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly agree to any restriction or limitation on the making of Restricted Payments by a Restricted Subsidiary, the repaying of loans or advances owing by a Restricted Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Restricted Subsidiary or the transferring of assets from any Restricted Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Restricted Subsidiary, except (a) restrictions and limitations imposed by Laws or by the Loan Documents, (b) customary restrictions and limitations contained in agreements relating to the disposition of a Restricted Subsidiary or its assets that is permitted hereunder and (c) any other restrictions that could not reasonably be expected to impair the Borrower's ability to repay the obligations hereunder as and when due.
Limitations on Upstreaming
SECTION 6.09. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any transaction of any kind with any Affiliate of the Borrower (other than the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary), other than upon fair and reasonable terms as could reasonably be obtained in an arms-length transaction with a Person that is not an Affiliate in accordance with prevailing industry customs and practices.
Transactions with Affiliates
SECTION 6.10. . The Borrower will not permit the ratio of Adjusted Total Debt as of the last day of any fiscal quarter to Consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on such last day to be more than 3.50 to 1.00.
Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio
If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
(a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five Business Days;
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower
 
or any Subsidiary in this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
(d) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.01(e), 5.05(b) or 5.06 or in Article VI;
(e) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender); provided that the 30-day grace period set forth above shall be reduced by the number of days that any Principal Officer of the Borrower had knowledge of any applicable failure prior to giving notice thereof to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Section 5.01(e);
(f) the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Debt, when and as the same shall become due and payable after giving effect to any applicable grace period;
(g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Debt becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (with or without the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both) the holder or holders of any Material Debt or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Debt to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Debt that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Debt; , that no Event of Default under this clause (g) shall occur unless and until any required notice has been given and/or the period of time has elapsed with respect to such Material Debt so as to permit such right to accelerate;
provided
provided
further
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Debtor Relief Law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Debtor Relief Law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
 
(k) one or more judgments for the payment of money (to the extent not covered by independent third party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage) in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000 if rendered against any Material Subsidiary or $150,000,000 if rendered against the Borrower and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(l) any member of the ERISA Group shall fail to pay, when due, an amount or amounts aggregating in excess of $100,000,000 which it shall have become liable to pay under Title IV of ERISA; or notice of intent to terminate a Material Plan shall be filed under Title IV of ERISA by any member of the ERISA Group, any plan administrator or any combination of the foregoing; or the PBGC shall institute proceedings under Title IV of ERISA to terminate, to impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or to cause a trustee to be appointed to administer, any Material Plan; or a condition shall exist by reason of which the PBGC would be entitled to obtain a decree adjudicating that any Material Plan must be terminated; or there shall occur a complete or partial withdrawal from, or a default, within the meaning of Section 4219(c)(5) of ERISA, with respect to, one or more multi-employer plans which could cause one or more members of the ERISA Group to incur a current payment obligation in excess of $100,000,000.
(m) a Change in Control shall occur;
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
Each of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not
 
the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, to appoint a successor, such appointment to be subject to the approval of the Borrower at all times other than during the existence of an Event of Default (which approval of the Borrower shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders
 
and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
Any resignation by the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Article shall also constitute its resignation as Issuing Bank and Swingline Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Issuing Bank and Swingline Lender, (b) the retiring Issuing Bank and Swingline Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor Issuing Bank shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring Issuing Bank to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring Issuing Bank with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
The Syndication Agent, the Co-Documentation Agents, the Joint Bookrunners and Co-Lead Arrangers shall have no duties, responsibilities or liabilities under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents other than their duties, responsibilities and liabilities in their capacity as Lenders hereunder. Without limiting the foregoing, none of such Lenders shall have or be deemed to have a fiduciary relationship with any Lender. Each Lender hereby makes the same acknowledgments with respect to the relevant Lenders in their respective capacities as Syndication Agent, Co-Documentation Agents, Joint Bookrunners and Co-Lead Arrangers, as applicable, as it makes with respect to the Administrative Agent in the preceding paragraph.
The Lenders are not partners or co-venturers, and no Lender shall be liable for the acts or omissions of, or (except as otherwise set forth herein in case of the Administrative Agent) authorized to act for, any other Lender. The Administrative Agent shall have the exclusive right on behalf of the Lenders to enforce the payment of the principal of and interest on any Loan after the date such principal or interest has become due and payable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
 
SECTION 9.01. . (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
(i) if to the Borrower, to FMC Technologies, Inc. at 1803 Gears Road, Houston, Texas 77067, Attention of Halet Murphy, Treasurer (Telecopy No. (281) 405-3068);
(ii) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., JPMorgan Loan and Agency Services, 10 South Dearborn, 7th Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603-2003, Attention of Tess Siao (Telecopy No. (888) 292-9533), with a copy to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 712 Main Street, Floor 12, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of Preeti Bhatnagar (Telecopy No. (713) 216-7794);
(iii) if to the Swingline Lender, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., JPMorgan Loan and Agency Services, 10 South Dearborn, 7th Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603-2003, Attention of Tess Siao (Telecopy No. (888) 292-9533), with a copy to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 712 Main Street, Floor 12, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of Preeti Bhatnagar (Telecopy No. (713) 216-7794); and
(v) if to an Issuing Bank or any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (as previously delivered to the Borrower).
(b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; provided that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
(c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
SECTION 9.02. . (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
Waivers; Amendments
(b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or
 
modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iv) change the last sentence of Section 2.09(c) or Section 2.18(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of Commitment reductions or payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, or (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be.
provided
provided further
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement and any other Loan Document may be amended (or amended and restated) with the written consent of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower to each relevant Loan Document (x) to add one or more credit facilities to this Agreement and to permit extensions of credit from time to time outstanding thereunder and the accrued interest and fees in respect thereof to share ratably in the benefits of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with the Revolving Loans and the accrued interest and fees in respect thereof and (y) to include appropriately the Lenders holding such credit facilities in any determination of the Required Lenders and Lenders.
(d) If, in connection with any proposed amendment, waiver or consent requiring the consent of "each Lender" or "each Lender directly affected thereby," the consent of the Required Lenders is obtained, but the consent of other necessary Lenders is not obtained (any such Lender whose consent is necessary but not obtained being referred to herein as a ""), then the Borrower may elect to replace a Non-Consenting Lender as a Lender party to this Agreement, that, concurrently with such replacement, (i) another bank or other entity which is reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and the Significant Issuing Banks shall agree, as of such date, to purchase for cash the Loans and other obligations due to the Non-Consenting Lender pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption and to become a Lender for all purposes under this Agreement and to assume all obligations of the Non-Consenting Lender to be terminated as of such date and to comply with the requirements of clause (b) of Section 9.04, with the Borrower or replacement Lender obligated to pay any applicable processing or recordation fee, (ii) the Borrower shall pay to such Non-Consenting Lender in same day funds on the day of such replacement (1) all interest, fees and other amounts then accrued but unpaid to such Non-Consenting Lender by the Borrower hereunder to and including the date of termination, including without limitation payments due to such Non-Consenting Lender under Sections 2.15 and 2.17, and (2) an amount, if any, equal to the payment which would have been due to such Lender on the day of such replacement under Section 2.16 had the Loans of such Non-Consenting Lender been prepaid on such date rather than sold to the replacement Lender and (iii) the replacement Lender shall provide such consent or the appointment of such replacement Lender will result in the effectiveness of such amendment, waiver or consent.
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein the Administrative Agent may, with the consent of the Borrower only, amend, modify or supplement this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents to cure in its reasonable judgment any ambiguity, omission, mistake, defect or inconsistency.
 
SECTION 9.03. . (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, in connection with the syndication and distribution (including, without limitation, via the internet or through a service such as Intralinks) of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit (which in such case shall be limited to all reasonable fees and disbursements of one law firm for all Lenders (other than the Administrative Agent) except where (i) conflicts of interest among one or more Lenders, (ii) the necessity for local counsel, or (iii) other circumstances exist that cause the Required Lenders to determine in good faith that one law firm cannot represent the interests of all the Lenders).
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(b) .
The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, the Co-Documentation Agents, the Joint Bookrunners, the Co-Lead Arrangers, each Issuing Bank and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the out-of-pocket fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel (subject to the provisions of Section 9.03(a)) for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by an Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee
Indemnitee
provided
(c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, any Co-Documentation Agent, any Joint Bookrunner, any Co-Lead Arranger, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, the applicable Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount (it
 
being understood that the Borrower's failure to pay any such amount shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof); that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, such Co-Documentation Agent, such Joint Bookrunner, such Co-Lead Arranger, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender in its capacity as such.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable Law, neither the Borrower nor any Indemnitee shall assert, and each hereby waives, any claim against the other, (i) for any damages arising from the use by others of information or other materials obtained through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems (including the Internet) or (ii) on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages or lost profits (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof; that nothing contained in this clause (d) shall limit the Borrower's indemnity obligations to any Indemnitee in respect of claims made by third parties for any special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages in connection with this Agreement or the Transactions or such Indemnitee's activities related thereto.
provided
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after written demand therefor.
(f) This Section 9.03 shall not apply to claims for Taxes. The Borrower's indemnitee obligation with respect to all Taxes shall be exclusively governed by Section 2.17 of this Agreement.
SECTION 9.04. . (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns
(b)(i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it), that (x) the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within five (5) Business Days after having received notice thereof and (y) the Borrower shall be deemed to have reasonably withheld its consent to an assignment if a proposed assignee does not have investment grade ratings from both S&P and Moody's.
provided
(ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
(A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's
 
Commitment or Loans of any Class, the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
provided
(B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, that this clause shall not be construed to prohibit the assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations in respect of one Class of Commitments or Loans;
provided
(C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; and
(D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire in which the assignee designates one or more credit contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower and its affiliates and their Related Parties or their respective securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable Laws, including Federal and state securities Laws.
(iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
(iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, any Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the
 
information contained therein in the Register; that if either the assigning Lender or the assignee shall have failed to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(c), 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b), 2.18(d) or 9.03(c), the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information therein in the Register unless and until such payment shall have been made in full, together with all accrued interest thereon. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
provided
(c)(i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17 (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under Section 2.17(e), (f), (h) and (i) (it being understood that the documentation required under Section 2.17(e) and (f) shall be delivered to the participating Lender)) to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by Law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.18(c) as though it were a Lender. Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it) (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it) are in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary. For the avoidance of doubt, the Administrative Agent (in its capacity as Administrative Agent) shall have no responsibility for maintaining a Participant Register.
Participant
provided
provided
Participant Register
provided
(ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.15 or 2.17 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.17 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.17(e), Section 2.17(f), Section 2.17(h) and Section 2.17(i), as applicable, as though it were a Lender.
 
(d) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank or other central banking authority, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
SECTION 9.05. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival
SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic imaging shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
SECTION 9.07. . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
SECTION 9.08. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
 
SECTION 9.09. . (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the Law of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
(b) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such state or, to the extent permitted by Law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by Law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court expressly referred to in the first sentence of paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.
. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
SECTION 9.10.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
SECTION 9.11. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
SECTION 9.12. . (a) Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, auditors, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential and that the Person disclosing Information to any
Confidentiality
 
such director, officer, employee or agent shall be liable for any subsequent disclosure made by any such director, officer, employee or agent), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable Laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) on a confidential basis to (i) any rating agency in connection with rating the Borrower or its Subsidiaries or the credit facilities provided hereunder or (ii) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar agency in connection with the issuance and monitoring of CUSIP numbers or other market identifiers with respect to the credit facilities provided hereunder, (h) with the consent of the Borrower or (i) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower relating to the Borrower or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
(b) EACH LENDER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT INFORMATION AS DEFINED IN SECTION 9.12(a) FURNISHED TO IT PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY INCLUDE MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION CONCERNING THE BORROWER AND ITS RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES, AND CONFIRMS THAT IT HAS DEVELOPED COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REGARDING THE USE OF MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION AND THAT IT WILL HANDLE SUCH MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THOSE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW, INCLUDING FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS.
(c) ALL INFORMATION, INCLUDING REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS, FURNISHED BY THE BORROWER OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT PURSUANT TO, OR IN THE COURSE OF ADMINISTERING, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE SYNDICATE-LEVEL INFORMATION, WHICH MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE BORROWER AND ITS RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES. ACCORDINGLY, EACH LENDER REPRESENTS TO THE BORROWER AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT THAT IT HAS IDENTIFIED IN ITS ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE A CREDIT CONTACT WHO MAY RECEIVE INFORMATION THAT MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITS COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW.
SECTION 9.13. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable Law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable Law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that
Interest Rate Limitation
Charges
Maximum Rate
 
would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
SECTION 9.14. . Each Lender that is subject to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "") hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act
Act
SECTION 9.15. . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Lenders are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Lenders and their Affiliates, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) each of the Lenders and their Affiliates is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) no Lender or any of its Affiliates has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except, in the case of a Lender, those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) each of the Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and no Lender or any of its Affiliates has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against each of the Lenders and their Affiliates with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and [] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including any letters of credit, guarantees, and swingline loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable Law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
Effective Date:             , 20     [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The Assignee agrees to deliver to the Administrative Agent a completed Administrative Questionnaire in which the Assignee designates one or more credit contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower and its Related Parties or their respective securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the Assignee's compliance procedures and applicable Laws, including Federal and state securities Laws.
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
[Consented to and]
4
Accepted:
 
 
 
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1 . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it satisfies the requirements, if any, specified in the Credit Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to acquire the Assigned Interest and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
Financial Statement Date:             , 20    
To:     JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.., as Administrative Agent, and each of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement described below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of March 26, 2012 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented, or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among FMC Technologies, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
The undersigned hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the                             of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, not individually, but on behalf of the Borrower, and that:
[Use following for fiscal year-end financial statements]
1. Attached hereto as Schedule I are the year-end audited financial statements required by Section 5.01(a) of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
[Use following for fiscal quarter-end financial statements]
1. Attached hereto as Schedule 1 are the unaudited financial statements required by Section 5.01(b) of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
2. The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
3. A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all obligations under the Loan Documents, and
[select one:]
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned during such fiscal period, the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it.]
 or -
[the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default or Event of Default and its nature and status:]
4. The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on Schedule 2 attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of            , 20    .
 
 
Compliance Certificate Financial Statement Date:
Set forth below are the calculations determining the compliance with the requirements of Section 6.10.
Adjusted Total Debt as of the Financial Statement Date to Consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the Financial Statement Date is             to 1.00. See below for calculations.
Section 6.10 -
 
Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 26, 2012 (as amended, restated, supplemented, or otherwise modified from time to time, the "") among FMC TECHNOLOGIES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), certain lenders named therein (the "") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (the ""). Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Administrative Agent
The undersigned Lender agrees with the Borrower and the Administrative Agent as follows:
1. Pursuant to Section 2.20 of the Credit Agreement, the Lender hereby agrees that its Commitment is increased from $            to $            .
2. The Lender (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent annual and quarterly financial statements referred to in Section 5.01 thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Commitment Increase Agreement; and (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement.
3. Following the execution of this Commitment Increase Agreement, it will be delivered to the Administrative Agent for acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent. The effective date for this Commitment Increase Agreement (the "Effective Date") shall be the date of acceptance hereof by the Administrative Agent, as reflected beneath its signature below.
4. Upon such acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent, (i) as of the Effective Date, the Lender shall have the increased Commitment contemplated hereby and (ii) on such date as the Administrative Agent may direct and through the Administrative Agent, the Lender shall make Loans, the proceeds of which shall be paid to the other Lenders, so that after giving effect thereto each of the Lenders holds its Applicable Percentage of the Loans outstanding on such date.5. This Commitment Increase Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
6. This Commitment Increase Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Lender, the Borrower, and the Administrative Agent have caused this Commitment Increase Agreement to be executed by their officers thereunto duly authorized as             , 20    .
 
 
Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 26, 2012 (as amended, restated, supplemented, or otherwise modified from time to time, the "") among FMC TECHNOLOGIES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), certain lenders named therein (the "") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (the ""). Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Administrative Agent
The undersigned new Lender, the Borrower, and the Administrative Agent agree as follows:
1. Pursuant to Section 2.20 of the Credit Agreement, the new Lender hereby assumes a Commitment of $            under the Credit Agreement.
[2. The new Lender requests that the Borrower execute and deliver to the new Lender a Note payable to the order of the new Lender.]
3. The new Lender (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent annual and quarterly financial statements referred to in Section 5.01 thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Joinder Agreement; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iii) appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under the Credit Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; (iv) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender; and (v) attaches any U. S. Internal Revenue Service or other forms required under Section 2.17 of the Credit Agreement.
4. Following the execution of this Joinder Agreement, it will be delivered to the Administrative Agent for acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent. The effective date for this Joinder Agreement (the "") shall be the date of acceptance hereof by the Administrative Agent, as reflected beneath its signature below.
Effective Date
5. Upon such acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent, (i) as of the Effective Date, the new Lender shall be a party to the Credit Agreement and, to the extent provided in this Joinder Agreement, have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder, and (ii) on such date as the Administrative Agent may direct and through the Administrative Agent, the new Lender shall make Loans, the proceeds of which shall be paid to the other Lenders, so that after giving effect thereto each of the Lenders holds its Applicable Percentage of the Loans outstanding on such date.
6. This Joinder Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
7. This Joinder Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the new Lender, the Borrower, and the Administrative Agent have caused this Joinder Agreement to be executed by their officers thereunto duly authorized as of             , 20    .
 
 
Date: ,
            
        
To: JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of March 26, 2012 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among FMC Technologies, Inc. (the "Borrower"), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
  A Borrowing of Revolving Loans          A conversion or continuation of Revolving Loans
 
The Borrower certifies that on the date of this request and on the date of the above Revolving Borrowing or conversion (after giving effect to the requested Revolving Borrowing or conversion) (a) all of the representations and warranties in Article III shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Revolving Borrowing, except that (i) to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall have been true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and (ii) the representations and warranties set forth in Section 3.04(c) and 3.05 shall be required to be true and correct in all material respects only on the occasion of any Revolving Borrowing which has the effect of increasing the outstanding principal amount of the obligations hereunder; and (b) at the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Revolving Borrowing, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of , 20.
            
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Letter of Credit issued December 6, 2007 by Bank of America, N.A. in the face amount of $6,000,000.00 for the benefit of BP Exploration terminating May 30, 2012 (evergreen)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


