FILE:FTI/FTI-8K-20120925151855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 21, 2012, FMC Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") completed the public offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 2.00% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "2017 Notes") and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.45% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Notes" and, together with the 2017 Notes, the "Notes").
The terms of the Notes are governed by the indenture (the "Base Indenture," and as amended and supplemented by the Supplemental Indentures (defined below), the "Indenture") dated as of September 21, 2012 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture between the Company and the Trustee (the "First Supplemental Indenture") relating to the issuance of the 2017 Notes and the Second Supplemental Indenture between the Company and the Trustee (the "Second Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the First Supplemental Indenture, the "Supplemental Indentures") relating to the issuance of the 2022 Notes.
The 2017 Notes will mature on October 1, 2017, and the 2022 Notes will mature on October 1, 2022. Interest is payable on the Notes on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on April 1, 2013. At any time prior to their maturity, in the case of the 2017 Notes, and at any time prior to July 1, 2022, in the case of the 2022 Notes, the Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at the redemption prices specified in the First Supplemental Indenture and Second Supplemental Indenture, respectively. At any time on or after July 1, 2022, the Company may redeem some or all of the 2022 Notes at the redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2022 notes redeemed.
The Notes are the Company's senior unsecured obligations. The Notes will rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company's existing and future unsubordinated debt, and will rank senior in right of payment to all of the Company's future subordinated debt.
In certain circumstances, the Indenture restricts the Company's ability and the ability of certain of its subsidiaries to: (i) enter into sale and leaseback transactions; (ii) incur liens on its principal properties; (iii) merge or consolidate with another entity; or (iv) sell, lease or transfer all or substantially all of its properties or assets to another entity. These covenants are subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications.
The Indenture contains customary events of default with respect to the Notes of either series, including:
 
 
 
 
If an event of default under the Indenture occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the series of Notes affected by such default may declare the principal of, together with any accrued but unpaid premium or interest, if any, on the Notes of that series to be due and payable immediately, or, in the case of certain events of default relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization, those amounts will automatically become immediately due and payable.
Other material terms of the Notes, the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indentures are described in the prospectus supplement, dated September 18, 2012, as filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 19, 2012. The foregoing descriptions of the Notes and the Indenture are qualified in their entirety by reference to such Indenture (including the forms of Notes attached thereto). Copies of the Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture are filed herewith as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 4.4, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
THIS INDENTURE, dated as of SEPTEMBER 21, 2012, is between FMC TECHNOLOGIES, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the ""), having its principal office at 5875 North Sam Houston Parkway West, Houston, Texas 77086, and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association having a corporate trust office at 555 San Felipe, Suite 1150, Houston, Texas 77056, as Trustee (herein called the "").
Company
Trustee
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the ""), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.
Securities
This Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder that are required to be part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, shall be governed by such provisions.
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
Section 101. Definitions.
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(2) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted in the United States at the date of such computation;
 
(3) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
(4) the word "will" shall be interpreted to express a command.
Certain terms, used principally in , are defined in that Article.
Article Six
"," when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in .
Act
Section 105
"" means any additional amounts that are required by the express terms of a Security or by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, under circumstances specified therein or pursuant thereto, to be paid by the Company with respect to certain taxes, assessments or other governmental charges imposed on certain Holders and that are owing to such Holders.
Additional Amounts
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" has the meaning specified in .
Agent Members
Section 203
"" means with respect to a Sale-Leaseback Transaction, at the time of determination, the lesser of:
Attributable Indebtedness
 
 
For purposes of the foregoing definition, rent will not include amounts required to be paid by the lessee, whether or not designated as rent or additional rent, on account of or contingent upon maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, utilities, water rates, operating charges, labor costs and similar charges. In the case of any lease that is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, the total net amount of rent shall be the lesser of the net
 
amount determined assuming termination upon the first date such lease may be terminated (in which case the net amount shall also include the amount of the penalty, but no rent shall be considered as required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or the total net amount of rent determined assuming no such termination.
"" means any Person, which may include the Company, authorized by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee pursuant to to authenticate Securities of one or more series.
Authenticating Agent
Section 614
"" means a newspaper, in the English language or in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in the place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different newspapers in the same city meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day.
Authorized Newspaper
"" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board.
Board of Directors
"" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
"," when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission
"" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
Company
"" and "" mean, respectively, a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Controller, an Assistant Controller, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
Company Order
"" means the aggregate amount of assets included in the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries less (i) current liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and (ii) the net book amount of all intangible assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Conversion Event
Section 501
"" means the designated office of the Trustee in Houston, Texas at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is that indicated in the introductory paragraph of this Indenture.
Corporate Trust Office
"" has the meaning specified in .
Defaulted Interest
Section 307
"" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, The Depository Trust Company or such other Person as may be designated as Depositary by the Company pursuant to with respect to the Securities of such series, in each case until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series.
Depositary
Section 301
"" or "" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Dollar
$
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 501
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor statute.
Exchange Act
"" has the meaning specified in .
Exchange Rate
Section 501
"," when used with respect to any Security, means the Person in whose name the Security is registered in the Security Register.
Holder
"" means (i) long-term liabilities representing borrowed money or purchase money obligations as shown on the liability side of a balance sheet, other than liabilities evidenced by obligations under leases, (ii) indebtedness secured by any Lien existing on property owned subject to that Lien, whether or not the same indebtedness has been assumed and (iii)contingent obligations in respect of, or to purchase or otherwise acquire, any indebtedness of others described in the foregoing or  above, including guarantees and endorsements, other than for purposes of collection in the ordinary course of business of any indebtedness.
Indebtedness
clause (i)
(ii)
"" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by and the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument.
Indenture
Section 301
"," when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
Interest
 
"," when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
Interest Payment Date
"" has the meaning specified in .
Judgment Currency
Section 506
"" means any mortgage, pledge, security interest, encumbrance, lien, charge or adverse claim affecting title or resulting in an encumbrance against real or personal property or a security interest of any kind (including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement or lease in the nature thereof or any filing or agreement to file a financing statement as debtor under the Uniform Commercial Code or any similar statute other than to reflect ownership by a third party of property leased to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under a lease that is not in the nature of a conditional sale or title retention agreement).
Lien
"," when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
Maturity
"" means a certificate signed by (i) the Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President, and (ii) the Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Treasurer, Assistant Controller or Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee, which certificate shall comply with .
Officers' Certificate
Section 103
"" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for or an employee of the Company, rendered, if applicable, in accordance with Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, which opinion shall comply with .
Opinion of Counsel
Section 103
"" means any Security which is issued at a price lower than the principal amount payable upon the Stated Maturity thereof and which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon redemption thereof or upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to .
Original Issue Discount Security
Section 502
"," when used with respect to Securities of a series, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
 
 
 
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, or whether a quorum is present at a meeting of Holders of Securities, (a) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be the principal amount thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination if the Maturity thereof were accelerated on such date pursuant to , (b) the principal amount of a Security denominated in a foreign currency shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined by the Company on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the amount determined as provided in (a) above), of such Security and (c) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver or upon any such determination as to the presence of a quorum, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
provided
however
Section 502
"" means any Person, which may include the Company, authorized by the Company to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on or Additional Amounts with respect to any one or more series of Securities on behalf of the Company.
Paying Agent
"" means:
Permitted Liens
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of any kind.
Person
"," when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of that series are payable as specified in accordance with , subject to the provisions of .
Place of Payment
Section 301
Section 1002
"" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
Predecessor Security
Section 306
"" means any real property, manufacturing plant, warehouse, office building or other physical facility, or any other like depreciable assets owned or leased by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, except for any such property which, in the opinion of the
Principal Property
 
Board of Directors as set forth in a Board Resolution adopted in good faith, is not material to the total business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; , that any such individual property shall be deemed not be a Principal Property (without the need for any Board Resolution) if such property does not have a fair value in excess of 0.25% of the total assets included in the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, that the aggregate fair value of properties excluded pursuant to the preceding proviso shall not exceed $100,000,000.
provided
provided further
"," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to the terms of the Security and this Indenture.
Redemption Date
"," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to the terms of the Security and this Indenture.
Redemption Price
"" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by , or, if not so specified, the first day of the calendar month in which such Interest Payment Date falls if such Interest Payment Date is the fifteenth day of the calendar month or the fifteenth day of the calendar month preceding such Interest Payment Date if such Interest Payment Date is the first day of a calendar month, whether or not such day shall be a Business Day.
Regular Record Date
Section 301
"" has the meaning specified in .
Required Currency
Section 506
"," when used with respect to the Trustee, means any vice president, any trust officer or assistant trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have primary responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
"" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any Principal Property, which Principal Property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary to such Person, other than:
Sale-Leaseback Transaction
 
 
 
 
"" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
Securities
"" means, with respect to Securities of a series issued in global form, the Trustee for Securities of such series, acting in its capacity as custodian with respect to the Securities of such series, or any successor entity thereto.
Security Custodian
"" and "" have the respective meanings specified in .
Security Register
Security Registrar
Section 305
"" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to .
Special Record Date
Section 307
"," when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
"" of a Person means (i) a corporation, a majority of whose Voting Stock is at the time, directly or indirectly, owned by that Person, by one or more subsidiaries of that Person or by that Person and one or more subsidiaries of that Person, (ii) a partnership in which that Person or a subsidiary of that Person is, at the date of determination, a general or limited partner of that partnership, but only if that Person or its subsidiary is entitled to receive more than 50% of the assets of that partnership upon its dissolution or more than 50% of the net income of that partnership, or (iii) any other Person, other than a corporation or partnership, in which that Person, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination, has (a) a majority equity ownership interest or (b) the power to elect or direct the election of a majority of the directors (or persons performing similar functions) of that Person and control the policies of that Person.
Subsidiary
"" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
Trustee
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed, except as provided in ; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act as so amended.
Trust Indenture Act
Section 905
provided
however
"" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia) and its "possessions," which include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands.
United States
"" means any Person who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual, a non-resident alien or foreign fiduciary of an estate or trust, or a foreign partnership.
United States Alien
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
U.S. Government Obligations
Section 401
"," when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
Vice President
"" means, with respect to any Person, capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
"" means a corporation or other Person that is an entity all the outstanding Voting Stock (other than any directors' qualifying shares) of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Wholly Owned Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Wholly Owned Subsidiaries.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
"," when used with respect to any Original Issue Discount Security, means the yield to maturity, if any, set forth on the face thereof.
Yield to Maturity
Section 102. Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act.
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the Trust Indenture Act, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following Trust Indenture Act terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
"" means the United States Bankruptcy Code or Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended from time to time.
Bankruptcy Act
"" means the Securities.
indenture securities
"" means a Holder.
indenture security holder
"" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
"" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
"" on the indenture securities means the Company or any other obligor on the Securities.
obligor
All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the Trust Indenture Act, defined by the Trust Indenture Act by reference to another statute or defined by Commission rule under the Trust Indenture Act and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them therein.
 
Section 103. Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Indenture, upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any (including any covenants the compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any (including any covenants the compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
(1) a statement that each person signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such person, such person has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
Section 104. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an Officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such Officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an Officer or Officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters is or are erroneous.
 
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
Section 105. Acts of Holders; Record Dates.
(a) Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the Holders of a specified percentage in principal amount of the Securities may take action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any direction, notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action) the fact that at the time of taking any such action the Holders of such specified percentage have joined therein may be evidenced (i) by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by Holders in Person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing, (ii) by the record of the Holders voting in favor thereof at any meeting of Holders duly called and held in accordance with hereof, (iii) by a combination of such instrument or instruments and any such record of such a meeting of Holders or (iv) in the case of Securities evidenced by a global Security, by any electronic transmission or other message, whether or not in written format, that complies with the Depositary's applicable procedures. Such evidence (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of the relevant Holders. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent, or the holding of any Person of a Security, shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to ) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The record of any meeting of Holders of Securities shall be proved in the manner provided in .
Article Thirteen
Act
Section 601
Section 1306
The Company may set in advance a record date for purposes of determining the identity of Holders of Securities entitled to vote or consent to any action by vote or consent authorized or permitted under this Indenture. If a record date is fixed, those Persons who were Holders of Outstanding Securities at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled with respect to such Securities to take such action by vote or consent or to revoke any vote or consent previously given, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice thereof to be given to the Trustee in writing in the manner provided in and to the relevant Holders as set forth in .
Section 106
Section 107
(b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
(c) The principal amount and serial numbers of Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, shall be proved by the Security Register.
 
(d) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security. Any Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or other Act as to his Security or portion of his Security; , , that such revocation shall be effective only if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the Act becomes effective.
provided
however
Section 106. Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
(1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing (including facsimile) to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Department, or
(2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing (including facsimile) and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this Indenture or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company, Attention: Corporate Secretary.
Section 107. Notice to Holders; Waiver.
Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of Securities of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service, or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice to Holders of Securities by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. In any case in which notice to Holders of Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder of a Security, shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Securities.
Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
 
Section 108. Conflict With Trust Indenture Act.
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the Trust Indenture Act (or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act), such provision of the Trust Indenture Act (or such other provision hereof which is required by the Trust Indenture Act) shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act which may be so modified or excluded, the former provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded.
Section 109. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
The Article and Section headings, the Cross-Reference Table and the Table of Contents herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 110. Successors and Assigns.
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture will bind its successors.
Section 111. Separability Clause.
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 112. Benefits of Indenture.
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, any Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent and Security Registrar, and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Section 113. Governing Law; Waiver of Jury Trial.
This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
 
Section 114. Legal Holidays.
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities) payment of principal and interest (and premium and Additional Amounts, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity, that no interest shall accrue with respect to such payment for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
provided
Section 115. Corporate Obligation.
No recourse may be taken, directly or indirectly, against any incorporator, subscriber to the capital stock, stockholder, officer, director or employee of the Company or the Trustee or of any predecessor or successor of the Company or the Trustee with respect to the Company's obligations on the Securities or the obligations of the Company or the Trustee under this Indenture or any certificate or other writing delivered in connection herewith.
Section 116. Force Majeure.
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Section 117. U.S.A. Patriot Act.
The Company acknowledges that in accordance with Section 326 of the U.S.A. Patriot Act, the Trustee, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account with the Trustee. The Company agrees that it will provide the Trustee with such information as it may request in order for the Trustee to satisfy the requirements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
Section 118. Language of Notices, Etc.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication.
 
Section 119. No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders.
No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder, member, manager or partner of the Company, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities, or this Indenture, or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Securities by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. Such waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Securities.
Section 201. Forms Generally.
The Securities of each series shall be in fully registered form and in substantially such form or forms (including temporary or permanent global form) as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form as permitted by , the form thereof shall be established as provided in the preceding sentence. A copy of the Board Resolution establishing the form or forms of Securities of any series (or any such temporary global Security) shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by for the authentication and delivery of such Securities (or any such temporary global Security).
Section 304
Section 303
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution thereof.
Section 202. Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
"This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
Section 203. Securities in Global Form.
If Securities of a series are issuable in global form, as contemplated by , then, notwithstanding of and the provisions of , any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee (i) in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified in such Security or in a Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to or , or (ii)otherwise in accordance with written instructions as is customary for the Depositary for such Security, from such Depositary or its nominee on behalf of any Person having a beneficial interest in such Security. Subject to the provisions of and, if applicable, , the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified in such Security or in the applicable Company Order. With respect to the Securities of any series that are represented by a Security in global form, the Company authorizes the execution and delivery by the Trustee of a letter of representations or other similar agreement or instrument in the form customarily provided for by the Depositary appointed with respect to such global Security. Any Security in global form may be deposited with the Depositary or its nominee, or may remain in the custody of the Security Custodian therefor pursuant to a FAST Balance Certificate Agreement or similar agreement between the Trustee and the Depositary. If a Company Order pursuant to or has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
Section 301
clause (10)
Section 301
Section 302
Section 303
Section 304
Section 303
Section 304
Section 303
Section 304
Section 103
Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Security issued in global form held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Security Custodian as its custodian, or under such global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Security Custodian and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the registered holder of a Security of any series issued in global form may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder of such series is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities of such series and (ii) nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Security Custodian or any agent of the Company or the Security Custodian, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or shall impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a beneficial owner of any Security.
Agent Members
Notwithstanding , except as otherwise specified as contemplated by , any permanent global Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. If the beneficial owners of interests in a permanent global Security are entitled to exchange such interest for Securities of such series and of like tenor and principal amount of another authorized form and denomination, as specified as contemplated by , then
Section 305
Section 301
Section 301
 
without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities of that series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Security, executed by the Company. On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, such permanent global Security shall be surrendered from time to time in accordance with instructions given to the Trustee and the Depositary (which instructions shall be in writing but need not comply with or be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) by the Depositary or such other depositary as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or in part, for definitive Securities of the same series without charge and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such permanent global Security, a like aggregate principal amount of other definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such permanent global Security to be exchanged; , , that no such exchanges may occur during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any Securities of that series are to be redeemed and ending on the relevant Redemption Date. Promptly following any such exchange in part, such permanent global Security marked to evidence the partial exchange shall be returned by the Trustee to the Depositary or such other depositary referred to above in accordance with the instructions of the Company referred to above. If a definitive Security is issued in exchange for any portion of a permanent global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such Security, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such permanent global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
Section 103
provided
however
Notwithstanding , except as otherwise specified as contemplated by , transfers of a Security issued in global form shall be limited to transfers of such global Security in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Interests of beneficial owners in a Security issued in global form may be transferred in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary. Securities of any series shall be transferred to all beneficial owners of a global Security of such series in exchange for their beneficial interests in that global Security if, and only if, (1) (A) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the global Security of such series or (B) the Depositary has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under applicable law, and in either case (A) or (B) a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, (2) an Event of Default has occurred with respect to such series and is continuing and the Security Registrar has received a request from the Depositary or the Trustee to issue Securities of such series in lieu of all or a portion of that global Security (in which case the Company shall deliver Securities of such series within 30 days of such request) or (3) the Company determines not to have the Securities of such series represented by a global Security and so notifies the Trustee.
Section 305
Section 301
 
In connection with any transfer of a portion of the beneficial interest in a global Security of any series to beneficial owners pursuant to this , the Security Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the global Security of that series in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the global Security of that series to be transferred, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of Securities of that series shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Securities of the same series of like tenor and amount.
Section 203
In connection with the transfer of all the beneficial interests in a global Security of any series to beneficial owners pursuant to this , the global Security shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in the global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of Securities of that series of authorized denominations.
Section 203
Neither the Company nor the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to, or payments made on account of, Securities of any series by the Depositary, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records of the Depositary relating to such Securities. Neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be liable for any delay by the related global Security Holder or the Depositary in identifying the beneficial owners, and each such Person may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, instructions from such global Security Holder or the Depositary for all purposes (including with respect to the registration and delivery, and the respective principal amounts, of the Securities to be issued).
The provisions of the last sentence of shall apply to any Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Security in global form together with written instructions (which need not comply with and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of .
Section 303
Section 103
Section 303
Notwithstanding the provisions of and , unless otherwise specified as contemplated by , payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to any Security in permanent global form shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
Section 201
Section 307
Section 301
Notwithstanding the provisions of and except as provided in the preceding paragraph, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or of the Trustee shall treat a Person as the Holder of such principal amount of Outstanding Securities represented by a global Security as shall be specified in a written statement, if any, of the Holder of such global Security, which is produced to the Security Registrar by such Holder.
Section 308
Global Securities may be issued in either temporary or permanent form. Permanent global Securities will be issued in definitive form.
 
Section 301. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series,
(1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities) and which may be part of a series of Securities previously issued;
(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to , , , or );
Section 304
Section 305
Section 306
Section 906
Section 1007
(3) whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form, and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in , and the Depositary for any global Security or Securities of such series, if other than The Depository Trust Company;
Section 203
(4) the manner in which any interest payable on a temporary global Security on any Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in ;
Section 304
(5) the date or dates on which the principal of (and premium, if any, on) the Securities of the series is payable or the method of determination thereof;
(6) the rate or rates, or the method of determination thereof, at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, whether and under what circumstances Additional Amounts with respect to such Securities shall be payable, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable and, if other than as set forth in , the Regular Record Date for the interest payable on any Securities on any Interest Payment Date;
Section 101
(7) the place or places where, subject to the provisions of , the principal of (and premium, if any), any interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series shall be payable;
Section 1002
 
(8) the period or periods within which, the price or prices (whether denominated in cash, securities or otherwise) at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, if the Company is to have that option, and the manner in which the Company must exercise any such option if different from those set forth herein;
(9) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices (whether denominated in cash, securities or otherwise) at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased in whole or in part pursuant to such obligation;
(10) the denomination in which any Securities of that series shall be issuable, if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof;
(11) the currency or currencies (including composite currencies) if other than Dollars, or the form, including equity securities, other debt securities (including Securities) warrants or any other securities or property of the Company or any other Person, in which payment of the principal of (and premium, if any), any interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series shall be payable;
(12) if the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a currency or currencies (including composite currencies) other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the currency or currencies (including composite currencies) in which payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to, Securities of such series as to which such election is made shall be payable, and the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made;
(13) if the amount of payments of principal of (and premium, if any), any interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any commodities, currencies or indices, values, rates or prices or any other index or formula, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(14) if other than the entire principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to or provable pursuant to .
Section 502
Section 504
(15) any changes or additions to , including the addition of additional covenants that may be subject to the covenant defeasance option pursuant to ;
Article Four
Section 401
(16) any deletions or modifications of or additions to the definitions set forth in , the Events of Default set forth in or covenants of the Company set forth in pertaining to the Securities of the series;
Section 101
Section 501
Article Ten
 
(17) if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities, other debt securities (including Securities), warrants or any other securities or property of the Company or any other Person, at the option of the Company or the Holder or upon the occurrence of any condition or event, the terms and conditions for such conversion or exchange; and
(18) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture except as permitted by ).
Section 901(9)
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to ) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
Section 303
All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the same time and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened, without the consent of the Holders, for increases in the aggregate principal amount of such series of Securities and issuances of additional Securities of such series or for the establishment of additional terms with respect to the Securities of such series.
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action together with such Board Resolution shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
Section 302. Denominations.
The Securities of each series shall be issuable in registered form without coupons and in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by . In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series denominated in Dollars shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to any series of Securities, any Securities of a series denominated in a currency other than Dollars shall be issuable in denominations that are the equivalent, as determined by the Company by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for such currency, as such rate is reported or otherwise made available by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, on the applicable issue date for such Securities, of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
Section 301
Section 301
Section 303. Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President, its Treasurer or one of its Vice Presidents. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile. The seal of the Company, if any, may be in the form of a facsimile thereof and may be impressed, affixed, imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities.
 
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities as in this Indenture provided and not otherwise.
If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions or any other method permitted by and , in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to ) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
Section 201
Section 301
Section 601
(a) if the form of such Securities has been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by , that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
Section 201
(b) if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by , that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
Section 301
(c) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions and assumptions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as such enforcement is subject to the effect of (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization or other laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights, (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) such other usual and customary limitations as shall be specified in such Opinion of Counsel.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security, a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in together with a written statement (which need not comply with and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Section 309
Section 103
 
Section 304. Temporary Securities.
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers of the Company executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture), if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
All Outstanding temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor authenticated and delivered hereunder.
Section 305. Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
The Company shall cause to be kept for each series of Securities at one of the offices or agencies maintained pursuant to a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities of such series. The Trustee is hereby initially appointed "" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
Section 1002
Security Register
Security Registrar
Except as set forth in or as may be provided pursuant to , upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount.
Section 203
Section 301
 
At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series in definitive form may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to , or not involving any transfer.
Section 304
Section 906
Section 1107
The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of such series selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
Section 306. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security (without surrender thereof save in the case of a mutilated Security).
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fee and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
Section 307. Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
Interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest. Unless otherwise provided with respect to the Securities of any series, payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed or delivered to the address of any Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in or  below:
Defaulted Interest
clause (1)
(2)
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed
 
payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities of such series at such Holder's address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. The Trustee may, in its discretion, in the name and at the expense of the Company, cause a similar notice to be published at least once in an Authorized Newspaper, but such publication shall not be a condition precedent to the establishment of such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following .
clause (2)
(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture, upon registration of transfer of, in exchange for or in lieu of, any other Security, shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Section 308. Persons Deemed Owners.
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to ) interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Section 307
Section 309. Cancellation.
All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee. All Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of in accordance with the Trustee's customary procedures.
 
Section 310. Computation of Interest.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a year of twelve 30-day months.
Section 301
Section 311. CUSIP Numbers.
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
provided
Section 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture; Defeasance.
The following provisions of this shall apply to the Securities of each series except as otherwise specified pursuant to for Securities of such series:
Section 401
Section 301
(a) If at any time the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all Securities of any series theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than any Securities of such series which shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in and Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company as provided in ) or all Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and the Company shall deposit with the Trustee as trust funds the entire amount in cash sufficient to pay at the date of Stated Maturity of the principal amount of the Securities or upon redemption all Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal and premium, if any, and interest due or to become due on such date of Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be, and if in either case the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of such Securities herein expressly provided for) with respect to the Securities of such series, and the Trustee, on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series.
Section 306
Section 1003
 
(b) Subject to , and , the Company at any time may terminate, with respect to Securities of a particular series, all its obligations under , , and with respect to the Securities of such series ("") or the operation of any covenant or additional Event of Default made applicable to such Securities pursuant to or (16) (""). The Company may exercise its legal defeasance option notwithstanding its prior exercise of its covenant defeasance option.
Sections 401(c)
401(d)
404
Sections 704
801
1008
1009
legal defeasance option
Section 301(15)
covenant defeasance option
If the Company exercises its legal defeasance option, payment of the Securities of the defeased series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default with respect to such series. If the Company exercises its covenant defeasance option, payment of the Securities of the defeased series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default specified in or .
Section 501(4)
501(7)
Upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth herein and upon request of the Company, the Trustee shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of those obligations that the Company terminates.
(c) Notwithstanding and  above, the Company's obligations in , , , , , , , , and shall survive until the Securities of the defeased series have been paid in full. Thereafter, the Company's obligations in and shall survive.
clauses (a)
(b)
Sections 305
306
401
403
404
610(e)
607
701
1002
1003
Sections 607
403
(d) The Company may exercise its legal defeasance option or its covenant defeasance option with respect to Securities of a particular series only if:
(i) the Company irrevocably deposits in trust with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations or a combination thereof for the payment of principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to, the Securities of such series to the date of Stated Maturity of the principal amount of the Securities or the Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(ii) the Company delivers to the Trustee a certificate from a nationally recognized firm of independent accountants expressing their opinion that the payments of principal and interest when due and without reinvestment on the deposited U.S. Government Obligations plus any deposited money without investment will provide cash at such times and in such amounts as will be sufficient to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest and any Additional Amounts when due on all the Securities of such series to such date of Stated Maturity or the Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(iii) the Company delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of such Securities over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding any creditors of the Company or others;
(iv) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit and after giving effect thereto;
(v) the deposit does not constitute a default under any other agreement binding on the Company;
 
(vi) in the event of the legal defeasance option, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Company has received from the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or since the date of this Indenture there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred;
(vii) in the event of the covenant defeasance option, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred; and
(viii) the Company delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent to the defeasance and discharge of the Securities of such series as contemplated by this have been complied with.
Article Four
Before or after a deposit, the Company may make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the redemption of Securities of such series at a future date in accordance with .
Article Eleven
For the purposes of this Indenture, "" means direct non-callable obligations of, or non-callable obligations the payment of principal of and interest on which is guaranteed by, the United States of America, or to the payment of which obligations or guarantees the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged, or beneficial interests in a trust the corpus of which consists exclusively of money or such obligations or a combination thereof.
U.S. Government Obligations
Section 402. Application of Trust Money.
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of , all money or U.S. Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest and any Additional Amounts for the payment of which such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
Section 1003
Section 401
Section 403. Indemnity for U.S. Government Obligations.
The Company shall pay and shall indemnify the Trustee and the Holders against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against deposited U.S. Government Obligations or the principal and interest received on such U.S. Government Obligations.
 
Section 404. Reinstatement.
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or U.S. Government Obligations deposited with respect to Securities of any series in accordance with by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series and the Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with ; , , that if the Company has made any payment of principal of (or premium, if any), or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Securities because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money or U.S. Government Obligations held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Section 401
Section 401
Section 401
provided
however
Section 501. Events of Default.
"," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body), unless it is either inapplicable to a particular series or it is specifically deleted or modified in or pursuant to the supplemental indenture or Board Resolution establishing such series of Securities or in the form of Security for such series:
Event of Default
(1) default in the payment of any interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Security of that series when such interest or Additional Amounts become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
(3) default in the deposit of any mandatory sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(4) default in the performance or breach of any covenant of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of one or more series of Securities other than that series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days (or, in the case of a default in the performance or breach of the covenant in , 120 days) after there has been given, by registered or certified
Section 704
 
mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of all series having the benefit of such covenant a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(5) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
(6) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it, of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable federal or state law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or
(7) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , if the principal of (and premium, if any) or any interest on, or Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security is payable in a currency or currencies (including a composite currency) other than Dollars and such currency (or currencies) is (or are) not available to the Company for making payment thereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company (a ""), the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to Holders of the Securities by making such payment in Dollars in an amount equal to the Dollar equivalent of the amount payable in such other currency, as determined by the Company by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for such currency (""), as such Exchange Rate is certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the date of such payment, or, if such rate is not then available, on the basis of the most recently available Exchange Rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , any payment made under such circumstances in Dollars where the required payment is in a currency other than Dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under this Indenture.
Section 501
Conversion Event
Exchange Rate
Section 501
 
Promptly after the occurrence of a Conversion Event with respect to Securities of any series, the Company shall give written notice thereof to the Trustee; and the Trustee, promptly after receipt of such notice, shall give notice thereof in the manner provided in to the Holders of such series. Promptly after the making of any payment in Dollars as a result of a Conversion Event with respect to Securities of any series, the Company shall give notice in the manner provided in to the Holders of such series, setting forth the applicable Exchange Rate and describing the calculation of such payments.
Section 107
Section 107
Section 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of (i) the series affected by such default (in the case of an Event of Default described in , ,  or  of ) or (ii) all series of Securities affected by such default (in the case of an Event of Default described in of ) may declare the principal amount (or, if any such Securities are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Securities of the series affected by such default or all series, as the case may be, together with any accrued but unpaid interest or any premium thereon or Additional Amount with respect thereto, to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount), together with any accrued but unpaid interest or any premium thereon or Additional Amount with respect thereto, shall become immediately due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in or  of shall occur, the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series, together with any accrued but unpaid interest or any premium thereon or Additional Amount with respect thereto, shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
clause (1)
(2)
(3)
(7)
Section 501
clause (4)
Section 501
clause (5)
(6)
Section 501
ipso facto
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series (or of all series, as the case may be) has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be), by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
(1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
 
 
 
 
(2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be), other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in .
Section 513
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
The Company covenants that if
(1) default is made in the payment of any installment of interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security of any series when such interest or Additional Amounts shall have become due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
(2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof,
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest and Additional Amounts and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal (and premium, if any) and on any overdue interest and Additional Amounts, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities (or in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities, the Securities' Yield to Maturity), and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
Section 504. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal (or lesser amount in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal (and premium, if any), interest or any Additional Amounts) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
(i) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (or lesser amount in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) (and premium, if any) and interest and any Additional Amounts owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
(ii) to collect and receive any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under .
Section 607
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceedings; , , that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and be a member of a creditors' or other similar committee.
provided
however
Section 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities or Coupons.
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be
 
brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Section 506. Application of Money Collected.
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal (or premium, if any), interest or any Additional Amounts, upon presentation of the Securities, and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under ;
Section 607
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) interest and Additional Amounts, respectively; and
THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Person or Persons entitled thereto.
To the fullest extent allowed under applicable law, if for the purpose of obtaining judgment against the Company in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of any series (the "") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the ""), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the New York Business Day next preceding that on which final judgment is given. Neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be liable for any shortfall nor shall it benefit from any windfall in payments to Holders of Securities under this Section caused by a change in exchange rates between the time the amount of a judgment against it is calculated as above and the time the Trustee converts the Judgment Currency into the Required Currency to make payments under this Section to Holders of Securities, but payment of such judgment shall discharge all amounts owed by the Company on the claim or claims underlying such judgment.
Required Currency
Judgment Currency
Section 507. Limitation on Suits.
Subject to , no Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
Section 508
(1) an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series shall have occurred and be continuing and such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of such continuing Event of Default;
 
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee such indemnity or security as it may reasonably require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity or security has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatsoever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders).
Section 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to ) interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to such Security on the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Section 307
Section 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
If the Trustee or any Holder of any Security has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, then and in every such case the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall, subject to any determination in such proceeding, be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Section 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of , no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be
Section 306
 
cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Section 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Section 512. Control by Holders.
With respect to Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, relating to or arising under an Event of Default described in , ,  or  of , and with respect to all Securities the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, not relating to or arising under such an Event of Default, that in each such case
clause (1)
(2)
(3)
(7)
Section 501
provided
(1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture, and
(2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
Section 513. Waiver of Past Defaults.
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all Securities waive any other past default hereunder and its consequences, except in each case a default
(1) in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security, or
(2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected.
Article Nine
 
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 514. Undertaking for Costs.
All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by its acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Company, to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security on or after the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date).
Section 515. Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws.
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Section 601. Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
(a) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series,
(1) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
(2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
(b) In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
(c) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that
(1) this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of of this Section;
Subsection (a)
(2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
(3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series or of all series, determined as provided in , relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series; and
Section 512
(4) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it against such risk or liability is not assured to it.
(d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
Section 602. Notice of Defaults.
Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall give notice of such default hereunder known to the Trustee to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in , unless such default shall have been cured or waived; , , that, except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking fund
Section 107
provided
however
 
installment with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if it in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series; and , , that in the case of any default of the character specified in with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Indenture, the term "" in relation to any series of Securities means any event, act or condition which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
provided
further
Section 501(4)
default
Section 603. Certain Rights of Trustee.
Subject to the provisions of :
Section 601
(a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order (except as may otherwise be provided with respect to delivery of any Security to the Trustee for authentication and delivery pursuant to Section 303, which shall be sufficiently evidenced as provided therein) and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(d) the Trustee may consult with counsel and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company, and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investiation;
 
(g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and, except for any Affiliates of the Trustee, the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
(h) anything in this Indenture notwithstanding, in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action;
(i) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture;
(j) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder;
(k) the Trustee shall not be required to give any bond or surety in respect of the performance of its powers and duties hereunder; and
(l) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
Section 604. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities (including any documents related to the offering and sale of the Securities). The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Section 605. May Hold Securities.
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to and , may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
Section 608
Section 613
 
Section 606. Money Held in Trust.
Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
Section 607. Compensation and Reimbursement.
The Company agrees
(1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation, expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or willful misconduct; and
(3) to indemnify the Trustee and each of its directors, officers, employees, agents and/or representatives for, and to hold each of them harmless against, any loss, liability, damage, claim or expense incurred without negligence or willful misconduct on each of their part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending themselves against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, a Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of the Trustee's powers or duties hereunder.
As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, particular Securities.
Any expenses and compensation for any services rendered by the Trustee after the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in or  of shall constitute expenses and compensation for services of administration under all applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws.
clause (5)
(6)
Section 501
The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee.
Section 608. Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.
(a) If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest, as defined in this Section, with respect to the Securities of any series and a default with respect to such series has occurred and is continuing, it shall, within 90 days after ascertaining that it has such conflicting interest, either eliminate such conflicting interest, apply to the Commission for permission to continue as Trustee or resign with respect to the Securities of that series in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
 
(b) In the event that the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of of this Section with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall, within 10 days after the expiration of such 90-day period, transmit by mail to all Holders of Securities of that series, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such failure.
Subsection (a)
(c) For the purposes of this Section, the term "" shall have the meaning specified in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act and the Trustee shall comply with Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act; that there shall be excluded from the operation of Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to the Securities of any series any indenture or indentures under which other securities, or certificates of interest or participation in other securities, of the Company are outstanding, if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act are met. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the optional provision permitted by the second sentence of Section 310(b)(9) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be applicable.
conflicting interest
provided
Section 609. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by federal or state or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
The Indenture shall always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of Sections 310(a)(1), 310(a)(2) and 310(a)(5) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 610. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of .
Section 611
(b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by shall not have been delivered to the resigning Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
Section 611
 
(c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of removal, the Trustee being removed may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(d) If at any time:
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
Section 608(a)
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder of Securities, or
Section 609
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to , any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
Section 514
(e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall within 60 days appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and such successor Trustee or Trustees shall comply with the applicable requirements of . If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company and accepted appointment in the manner required by , any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
Section 611
Section 611
(f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in . Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
Section 107
 
Section 611. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
(a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
(b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, subject nonetheless to the lien provided for in .
Section 607
(c) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in or  of this Section, as the case may be.
paragraph (a)
(b)
(d) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
 
Section 612. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. As soon as practicable, the successor Trustee shall give written notice of its succession to the Company and the Holders of the Securities then Outstanding in the manner provided in . In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
provided
Section 107
Section 613. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship described in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent indicated therein.
Section 614. Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities, which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption or pursuant to , and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 or equivalent amount expressed in a foreign currency and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State or District of Columbia authority or authority of such country. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Section 306
 
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, in the manner provided in . Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
Section 107
The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section.
If an appointment is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
"This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
Notwithstanding any provision of this to the contrary, if at any time any Authenticating Agent appointed hereunder with respect to any series of Securities shall not also be acting as the Security Registrar hereunder with respect to any series of Securities, then, in addition to all other duties of an Authenticating Agent hereunder, such Authenticating Agent shall also be obligated: (i) to furnish to the Security Registrar promptly all information necessary to enable the Security Registrar to maintain at all times an accurate and current Security Register; and (ii) prior to authenticating any Security denominated in a foreign currency, to ascertain from the Company the units of such foreign currency that are required to be determined by the Company pursuant to .
Section 614
Section 302
Section 701. Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.
With respect to each series of Securities, the Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
(a) semi-annually, not more than 15 days after each Regular Record Date relating to that series (or, if there is no Regular Record Date relating to that series, on January 1 and July 1) a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of that series as of such dates, and
(b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content, such list to be dated as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
, that so long as the Trustee is the Security Registrar, the Company shall not be required to furnish or cause to be furnished such a list to the Trustee. The Company shall otherwise comply with Section 312(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
provided
Section 702. Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
(a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders of each series contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in and the names and addresses of Holders of each series received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar, if applicable. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in upon receipt of a new list so furnished. The Trustee shall otherwise comply with Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 701
Section 701
(b) Holders of Securities may communicate pursuant to Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities.
(c) Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with , regardless of the source
Section 702(b)
 
from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under . The Company, the Trustee, the Security Registrar and any other Person shall have the protection of Section 312(c) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 702(b)
Section 703. Reports by Trustee.
(a) Within 60 days after May 15 of each year after the execution of this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to Holders a brief report dated as of such May 15 that complies with Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
(b) The Trustee shall comply with Section 313(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
(c) Reports pursuant to this Section shall be transmitted by mail as required by Sections 313(c) and 313(d) of the Trust Indenture Act:
(1) to all Holders of Securities, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear in the Security Register;
(2) to such Holders of Securities as have, within the two years preceding such transmissions, filed their names and addresses with the Trustee for that purpose; and
(3) except in the case of reports pursuant to of this Section, to each Holder of a Security whose name and address is preserved at the time by the Trustee, as provided in .
Subsection (b)
Section 702(a)
(d) A copy of each report pursuant to or  of this shall, at the time of its transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange or of any delisting thereof.
Subsection (a)
(b)
Section 703
Section 704. Reports by Company.
For so long as any Securities are Outstanding, if the Company is subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Company shall file with the Commission and furnish to the Trustee (unless such reports are available on the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system or any successor thereto; , that the Trustee shall have no responsibility whatsoever to determine if such reports are available on EDGAR), within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and regulations:
provided, however
(1) all quarterly and annual reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K required to be filed by companies that are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act; and
(2) all current reports on Form 8-K required to be filed by companies that are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.
 
Each annual report on Form 10-K shall include a report on the Company's consolidated financial statements by the Company's certified independent accountants. In addition, the Company shall post a copy of each of the reports referred to in and  above on its website for public availability as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Commission.
clauses (1)
(2)
If, at any time, the Company is no longer subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for any reason, the Company shall nevertheless continue to prepare the financial statements and a "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" substantially similar to that which would have been required to be included in each of the reports specified in of the preceding paragraph of this section had the Company been subject to such Exchange Act reporting requirements (with all such financial statements prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X promulgated by the Commission and all such annual financial statements including a report thereon from the Company's certified independent accountants) and post copies thereof to the Company's website for public availability within the time periods that would have been applicable to filing such reports with the Commission in the rules and regulations applicable to such reports if the Company had been required to file those reports with the Commission; , , that if the Company is no longer subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Company will not be required to comply with Section 302 or Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or related Items 307 and 308 of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, or Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K (with respect to any non-GAAP financial measures contained therein).
clause (1)
provided
however
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
Section 801. Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
The Company shall not convert into or consolidate, amalgamate, merge or enter into a scheme of arrangement with or into any other Person or sell, convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, unless:
(1) Either (a) the Company is the surviving corporation or (b) the Person reasonably formed by or surviving any such conversion, consolidation, amalgamation, merger or scheme of arrangement (if other than the Company) or the Person to which such sale, conveyance, lease or transfer is made (i) shall expressly assume by an indenture supplemental hereto, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, executed and delivered to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to all of the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed, and (ii) is organized under the laws of a country that is a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
 
Development, including the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia; that, unless such Person referred to in is a corporation, a corporate co-issuer of the securities will be added to the applicable indenture by agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee;
provided
clause (b)
(2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event, act or condition which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
(3) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such conversion, consolidation, amalgamation, merger, scheme of arrangement, sale, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
Section 802. Successor Person Substituted.
Upon any conversion into or consolidation, amalgamation or entering into a scheme of arrangement by the Company with, or merger by the Company into, any other Person or any sale, conveyance, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company in accordance with , the successor Person formed by such consolidation, amalgamation or scheme of arrangement or into which the Company is merged or converted or to which such sale, conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of such lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
Section 801
Section 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
(1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and to provide for the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities in accordance with ; or
Article Eight
(2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series), to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee or otherwise secure any series of the Securities or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
 
(3) to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of the Securities (and, if such Event of Default is applicable to less than all series of Securities, specifying the series to which such Event of Default is applicable); or
(4) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is adversely affected by such change in or elimination of such provision; or
provided
(5) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by and ; or
Section 201
Section 301
(6) to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance or satisfaction and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to ; , , that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of such series or any other series of Securities in any material respect; or
Section 401
provided
however
(7) to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of ; or
Section 611(b)
(8) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, such other provisions as may be made shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series in any material respect;
provided
(9) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, that any such addition, change or elimination (A) shall neither (i) apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provisions nor (ii) modify the rights of the Holder of any such Security with respect to such provision or (B) shall become effective only when there is no such Security Outstanding; or
provided
(10) to comply with any requirement in order to effect or maintain qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
 
Section 902. Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Holders.
With the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
provided
however
(1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, any premium payable upon redemption thereof or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon, any Additional Amounts with respect thereto or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or change any obligation of the Company to pay Additional Amounts (except as contemplated by ) and permitted by ), or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to , or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency or currencies (including composite currencies) in which, any Security or any premium or any interest thereon or Additional Amounts with respect thereto is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or
Section 801(1)
Section 901(1)
Section 502
(2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of Outstanding Securities, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or
(3) modify any of the provisions of this Section, or , except to increase any such percentage or to provide with respect to any particular series the right to condition the effectiveness of any supplemental indenture as to that series on the consent of the Holders of a specified percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series (which provision may be made pursuant to without the consent of any Holder) or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, , , that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and , or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of and .
Section 512
Section 1106
Section 301
provided
however
Section 1006
Section 611(b)
Section 901(7)
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any consent of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
 
Section 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to ) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture and, subject to customary exceptions, such supplemental indenture is a valid and binding obligation. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties, immunities or liabilities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Section 601
Section 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Section 905. Conformity With Trust Indenture Act.
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Section 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
Section 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any), interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
 
Section 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency.
The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. Further, if at any time there shall be no such office or agency in The City of New York where the Securities of each series may be presented or surrendered for payment, the Company shall forthwith designate and maintain such an office or agency in The City of New York, in order that the Securities of each series shall at all times be payable in The City of New York. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities as contemplated by , the Company hereby initially designates (i) the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as the Company's office or agency for each such purpose for each series of Securities and (ii) the corporate trust office of the Trustee at 100 Wall Street, Suite 1600, New York, New York 10005 as its office or agency where each series of the Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment.
Section 301
Section 1003. Money for Securities Payments to be Held in Trust.
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, before 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest or any Additional Amounts so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, the Company will, before 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of its action or failure so to act.
 
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:
(1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any), interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to Securities of that series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
(2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment of principal (and premium, if any), interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of that series; and
(3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Subject to any applicable escheat or abandoned property laws, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for three years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest or Additional Amounts have become due and payable shall, unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat, or abandoned or unclaimed property law, be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in an Authorized Newspaper in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and in such other Authorized Newspapers as the Trustee shall deem appropriate, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
Section 1004. Existence.
Subject to , the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence.
Article Eight
 
Section 1005. Statement by Officers as to Default.
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof so long as any Security is outstanding hereunder, an Officers' Certificate complying with Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, stating that a review of the activities of the Company during such year and of performance under this Indenture has been made under the supervision of the signers thereof and whether or not, to the best of their knowledge based upon such review, the Company is in default in the performance, observance or fulfillment of any of its covenants and other obligations under this Indenture, and if the Company shall be in default, specifying each such default known to them and the nature and status thereof. One of the officers signing the Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to this shall be the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company.
Section 1005
For purposes of this Section, such compliance shall be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under this Indenture.
Section 1006. Waiver of Certain Covenants.
The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in or , or any covenant added for the benefit of any series of Securities as contemplated by (unless otherwise specified pursuant to ) if before or after the time for such compliance the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such omission (acting as one class) shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 1008
Section 1009
Section 301
Section 301
Section 1007. Additional Amounts.
If the Securities of a series expressly provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, the Company will pay to the Holder of any Security of such series Additional Amounts as expressly provided therein. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or in respect of, any Security of any series or the net proceeds received from the sale or exchange of any Security of any series, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided for in this Section to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Section and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
If the Securities of a series provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, at least 10 days prior to the first Interest Payment Date with respect to that series of Securities (or if the Securities of that series will not bear interest prior to Maturity, the first day on which a payment of principal and any premium is made), and at least 10 days prior to each date of payment of principal and any premium or interest if there has been any change with respect to the matters set
 
forth in the below-mentioned Officers' Certificate, the Company shall furnish the Trustee and the Company's principal Paying Agent or Paying Agents, if other than the Trustee, with an Officers' Certificate instructing the Trustee and such Paying Agent or Paying Agents whether such payment of principal of and any premium or interest on the Securities of that series shall be made to Holders of Securities of that series who are United States Aliens without withholding for or on account of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge described in the Securities of that series. If any such withholding shall be required, then such Officers' Certificate shall specify by country the amount, if any, required to be withheld on such payments to such Holders of Securities and the Company will pay to such Paying Agent the Additional Amounts required by this Section. The Company covenants to indemnify the Trustee and any Paying Agent for, and to hold them harmless against any loss, liability or expense reasonably incurred without negligence or bad faith on their part arising out of or in connection with actions taken or omitted by any of them in reliance on any Officers' Certificate furnished pursuant to this .
Section 1007
Section 1008. Limitation on Liens.
The Company will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, incur, create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on any Principal Property or any securities or indebtedness of any Subsidiary that owns or leases any Principal Property (whether such Principal Property, securities or indebtedness are now existing or owned or subsequently created or acquired) to secure any Indebtedness, without effectively providing that all of the Securities Outstanding hereunder shall be secured equally and ratably with or prior to such secured Indebtedness until such time as such Indebtedness is no longer secured by a Lien. This restriction shall not apply to:
(1) Liens existing on, or provided for under the terms of agreements existing on, the date that any Securities are issued under this Indenture;
(2) Liens on property, shares of stock, indebtedness or other assets existing at the time of acquisition thereof (including Liens on any property, shares of stock, indebtedness or other assets acquired from or held by a Person which is consolidated or amalgamated with, or merged with or into, the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company) and Liens on property, shares of stock, indebtedness or other assets of a Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Company that are not incurred in anticipation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary of the Company;
(3) Liens on property acquired, constructed, altered or improved by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries after the date of this Indenture which are created or assumed contemporaneously with, or within one year after, such acquisition (or in the case of property constructed, altered or improved, after the completion and commencement of commercial operation of such property, whichever is later) to secure or provide for the payment of any part of the purchase price of such property or the cost of such construction, alteration or improvement, it being understood that if a commitment for such a financing is obtained prior to or within such one year period, the applicable Lien shall be deemed to be included in this whether or not such Lien is created within such one year period; that in the case of any such construction, alteration or improvement the Lien shall not apply to any property theretofore owned by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries other than (i) the property so altered or improved and (ii) any theretofore unimproved real property on which the property so constructed or altered, or the improvement, is located;
clause (3)
provided
 
(4) Liens in favor of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(5) Liens on any current assets that secure current liabilities;
(6) Liens in favor of the United States or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), any foreign country or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of any such jurisdiction to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute;
(7) Liens to secure any Indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of constructing, developing, repairing or improving the property subject to such Liens, including without limitation, Liens to secure Indebtedness of the pollution control or industrial revenue bond type;
(8) Liens to secure Indebtedness issued or guaranteed by the United States or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), any foreign country or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of any such jurisdiction;
(9) Permitted Liens; and
(10) Liens to secure any refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement (or successive refinancings, refundings, extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in the foregoing ; , , that the principal amount of Indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness so secured at the time of such refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement (plus the aggregate amount of premiums, other payments, costs and expenses related to such refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement), and that such refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or a part of the property which secured the Lien so refinanced, refunded, extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property).
clauses (1) through (9)
provided
however
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this or the provisions of , the Company and any of its Subsidiaries may incur, issue, assume or guarantee Indebtedness secured by a Lien not otherwise permitted by this Indenture without securing the Securities, or may enter into Sale-Leaseback Transactions without complying with , or enter into a combination of such transactions, in an aggregate amount which, together with the aggregate principal amount of all other such secured Indebtedness then outstanding and the aggregate amount of Attributable Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries deemed to be outstanding in respect of all Sale-Leaseback Transactions (to the extent not included in Indebtedness secured by Liens not otherwise permitted by this Indenture and excluding any Sale-Leaseback Transactions the proceeds of which have been applied in accordance with of ), does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Section 1008
Section 1009
Section 1009
clause (b)
Section 1009
 
Section 1009. Restriction on Sale-Leaseback Transactions.
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any Sale-Leaseback Transaction with respect to any Principal Property unless either:
(a) at the time of entering into such Sale-Leaseback Transaction, the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Indebtedness secured by a Lien on the Principal Property subject to such Sale-Leaseback Transaction in a principal amount at least equal to the Attributable Indebtedness with respect to such Sale-Leaseback Transaction pursuant to without equally and ratably securing the Securities pursuant to such Section; or
Section 1008
(b) within 12 months after the effective date of such Sale-Leaseback Transaction, the Company or its Subsidiary, as the case may be, applies an amount equal to not less than the Attributable Indebtedness with respect to such Sale-Leaseback Transaction either to:
(1) the voluntary defeasance or the prepayment, repayment, redemption or retirement of Indebtedness of the Company that ranks with the Securities in right of payment of principal, premium and interest;
pari passu
(2) the acquisition, construction, development or improvement of any Principal Property used or useful in the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries; or
(3) any combination of applications referred to in and  above.
clauses (1)
(2)
Section 1101. Applicability of Article.
Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Section 301
Section 1102. Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
Unless otherwise provided with respect to the Securities of a series as contemplated by , the election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series, the Company shall, at least five Business Days prior to the giving of notice of such redemption (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities (a) prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture or (b) pursuant to an election of the Company that is subject to a condition specified in the terms of the Securities of the series to be redeemed, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction or condition.
Section 301
 
Any notice may be cancelled at any time prior to the mailing of that notice of redemption to any Holder of any Security of that Series and shall thereupon be void and of no effect.
Section 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to be Redeemed.
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or of the principal amount of global Securities of such series.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and the Security Registrar in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. If the Securities of any series to be redeemed consist of Securities having different dates on which the principal is payable or different rates of interest, or different methods by which interest may be determined or have any other different tenor or terms, then the Company may, by written notice to the Trustee, direct that the Securities of such series to be redeemed shall be selected from among the groups of such Securities having specified tenor or terms and the Trustee shall thereafter select the particular Securities to be redeemed in the manner set forth in the preceding paragraph from among the group of such Securities so specified.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
Section 1104. Notice of Redemption.
Notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided in to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.
Section 107
All notices of redemption shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date;
(2) the Redemption Price (or, if the Redemption Price is not determinable when the notice of redemption is given, then the method of calculating it);
(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed;
 
(4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date;
(5) the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price;
(6) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case; and
(7) the "CUSIP" number, if applicable.
Notices of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company; , , that the Company has delivered to the Trustee, at least five Business Days (unless a shorter period shall be acceptable to the Trustee) prior to mailing the notice of redemption, a Company Request that the Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice.
provided
however
Section 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price.
On or before 10:00 a. m., New York City time, on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in ) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
Section 1003
Section 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest (and any Additional Amounts) to the Redemption Date; , , that installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant record dates according to their terms and the provisions of .
provided
however
Section 307
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities, the Securities' Yield to Maturity.
 
Section 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part.
Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Section 1108. Purchase of Securities.
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by , the Company and any Affiliate of the Company may at any time purchase or otherwise acquire Securities in the open market or by private agreement. Such acquisition shall not operate as or be deemed for any purpose to be a redemption of the indebtedness represented by such Securities. Any Securities purchased or acquired by the Company may be delivered to the Trustee and, upon such delivery, the indebtedness represented thereby shall be deemed to be satisfied. shall apply to all Securities so delivered.
Section 301
Section 309
Section 1201. Applicability of Article.
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of such series.
Section 301
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." Unless otherwise provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in . Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
Section 1202
Section 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.
The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption), and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such
 
Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking payment shall be reduced accordingly.
provided
Section 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.
Not less than 45 days prior (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivery of or by crediting Securities of that series pursuant to and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in . Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in and .
Section 1202
Section 1103
Section 1104
Section 1106
Section 1107
Section 1301. Purposes for Which Meetings May Be Called.
A meeting of Holders of Securities of any or all series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to this Article to make, give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series.
Section 1302. Call, Notice and Place of Meetings.
(a) The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series for any purpose specified in , to be held at such time and at such place in Houston, Texas or in New York, New York, or in any other location, as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given, in the manner provided in , not less than 20 nor more than 180 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
Section 1301
Section 107
(b) In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a Board Resolution, or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, shall have requested the Trustee for any such series to call a meeting of the Holders of Securities of such series for any purpose specified in , by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have made the
Section 1301
 
first publication of the notice of such meeting within 30 days after receipt of such request or shall not thereafter proceed to cause the meeting to be held as provided herein, then the Company or the Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified, as the case may be, may determine the time and the place in Houston, Texas or in New York, New York, for such meeting and may call such meeting for such purposes by giving notice thereof as provided in of this Section and shall provide a copy to the Trustee.
Subsection (a)
Section 1303. Persons Entitled to Vote at Meetings.
To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, a Person shall be (1) a Holder of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series, or (2) a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy for a Holder or Holders of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series by such Holder or Holders. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel, any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
Section 1304. Quorum; Action.
The Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series. In the absence of a quorum within 30 minutes of the time appointed for any such meeting, the meeting shall, if convened at the request of Holders of Securities of such series, be dissolved. In any other case, the meeting may be adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such adjourned meeting, such adjourned meeting may be further adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such adjourned meeting. Subject to , notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in , except that such notice need be given only once not less than five days prior to the date on which the meeting is scheduled to be reconvened. Notice of the reconvening of an adjourned meeting shall state expressly that Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall constitute a quorum.
Section 1305(d)
Section 1302(a)
Except as limited by the first proviso to , any resolution presented to a meeting or adjourned meeting duly reconvened at which a quorum is present as aforesaid may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series; , , that, except as limited by the first proviso to , any resolution with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act which this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage that is less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series may be adopted at a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly reconvened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid by the affirmative vote of the Holders of such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series.
Section 902
provided
however
Section 902
 
Except as limited by the first proviso to , any resolution passed or decision taken at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly held in accordance with this Section shall be binding on all the Holders of Securities of such series, whether or not present or represented at the meeting.
Section 902
Section 1305. Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings.
(a) The holding of Securities shall be proved in the manner specified in and the appointment of any proxy shall be proved in the manner specified in . Such regulations may provide that written instruments appointing proxies, regular on their face, may be presumed valid and genuine without the proof specified in or other proof.
Section 105
Section 105
Section 105
(b) The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Holders of Securities as provided in , in which case the Company or the Holders of Securities of the series calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting.
Section 1302(b)
(c) At any meeting each Holder of a Security of such series and each proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by such Holder; , , that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote, except as a Holder of a Security of such series or as a proxy.
provided
however
(d) Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly called pursuant to at which a quorum is present may be adjourned from time to time by Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting; and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
Section 1302
Section 1306. Counting Votes and Recording Action of Meetings.
The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts and serial numbers of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record, at least in duplicate, of the proceedings of each meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to such record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that such notice was given as provided in and, if applicable, . Each copy shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary
Section 1302
Section 1304
 
of the meeting and one such copy shall be delivered to the Company, and another to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting. Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
 
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. The exchange of copies of this Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Indenture for all purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.2
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of September 21, 2012 (this "Supplemental Indenture"), between FMC Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"),
WHEREAS, the Issuer has entered into an Indenture, dated as of the date hereof (the "Original Indenture"), with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee;
WHEREAS, the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";
WHEREAS, under Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Original Indenture, the form and terms of a new series of Securities (as defined in the Original Indenture) may at any time be established by a supplemental indenture executed by the Issuer and the Trustee;
WHEREAS, the Issuer proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of Securities; and
WHEREAS, all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture and to make it a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer have been done or performed.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.01. .
Establishment of New Series
(a) There is hereby established a new series of Securities to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Issuer's 2.00% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "Notes").
(b) There are to be authenticated and delivered $300,000,000 principal amount of Notes on the Issue Date, and from time to time thereafter there may be authenticated and delivered an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes.
(c) The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The Depositary with respect to the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
(d) Each Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear interest as provided in paragraph 1 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto.
(e) No Additional Amounts shall be payable in relation to the Notes.
(f) If and to the extent that the provisions of the Original Indenture are duplicative of, or in contradiction with, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
Section 2.01. . All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined below shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Original Indenture. The following are additional definitions used in this Supplemental Indenture:
Definitions in the Indenture
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.02 of this Supplemental Indenture.
Additional Notes
"" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar United States federal or state law (or any similar foreign law) for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Act
or means a Note that is executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with the Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and which shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all the Outstanding Notes or any portion thereof.
"Global Security"
"Global Note"
means the date on which the Notes are initially issued under the Indenture.
"Issue Date"
has the meaning assigned to it in Section 1.01(a) hereof, and includes both the Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes.
"Notes"
Section 3.01. . The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities, and the Notes and Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this Supplemental Indenture, and the Issuer and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
Form
Section 3.02. . The Issuer may, from time to time, issue an unlimited amount of additional Notes ("Additional Notes") under the Indenture, which shall be issued in the same form as the Notes issued on the Issue Date and which shall have identical terms as the Notes issued on the Issue Date other than with respect to the issue date and first payment of interest. The Notes issued on the Issue Date shall be limited in aggregate principal amount to $300,000,000, subject to the provisions of Section 306 of the Original Indenture. The Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes subsequently issued shall be treated as a single series for purposes of giving of notices, consents, waivers, amendments and taking any other action permitted under the Indenture and for purposes of interest accrual and redemptions.
Issuance of Additional Notes
 
Section 4.01. .
Optional Redemption
(a) At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
(b) To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto.
(c) Any redemption pursuant to this Section 4.01 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article Eleven of the Original Indenture. The actual Redemption Price, calculated as provided in paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto, shall be certified in writing to the Trustee by the Company no later than one Business Day prior to each Redemption Date.
Section 4.02. . The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes and shall have no obligation to repurchase any Notes at the option of the Holders.
Mandatory Redemption
Section 5.01. . This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Integral Part
Section 5.02. . The Original Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
Section 5.03. . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. The exchange of copies of this Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall
Counterparts
constitute effective execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Supplemental Indenture for all purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
Section 5.04. . .
Governing Law
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
 
Section 5.05. . The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture and shall not be liable in connection therewith. The rights and duties of the Trustee shall be determined by the express provisions of the Original Indenture and, except as expressly set forth in this Supplemental Indenture, nothing in this Supplemental Indenture shall in any way modify or otherwise affect the Trustee's rights and duties thereunder.
Trustee Makes No Representation; Trustee's Rights and Duties
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
FMC TECHNOLOGIES, INC., a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to             , or registered assigns, the principal sum of $            Dollars [or such greater or lesser amount as may be endorsed on the Schedule attached hereto]
1
on October 1, 2017.
Interest Payment Dates: April 1 and October 1
Record Dates: March 15 and September 15
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as Trustee
 
 
[UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO HEREIN.]
2
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
1. . FMC Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 2.00% per annum from September 21, 2012 until maturity. The Issuer shall pay interest semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each such year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date"). Interest on the Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a Regular Record Date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be April 1, 2013. The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at the same rate; and it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest; Additional Interest
provided
provided
further
 
 
2. . The Issuer shall pay interest on the Notes (except Defaulted Interest) to the Persons who are Holders of Notes at the close of business on the March 15 or September 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 307 of the Original Indenture with respect to Defaulted Interest, and the Issuer shall pay principal (and premium, if any) of the Notes upon surrender thereof to the Trustee or a Paying Agent on or after the Stated Maturity thereof. The Notes shall be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for such purpose (which initially is the corporate trust office of U.S. Bank National Association at 100 Wall Street, Suite 1600, New York, New York 10005) or, at the option of the Issuer, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds shall be required with respect to principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, (a) each Global Security and (b) all other Notes aggregating at least $1,000,000 in principal amount the Holder of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuer or the Paying Agent to an account in the United States prior to the applicable record date. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
provided
3. . Initially, U.S. Bank National Association, the Trustee under the Indenture, has been appointed to act as Paying Agent and Security Registrar. The Issuer may change any Paying Agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Issuer may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
4. . The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of September 21, 2012 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 21, 2012 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Issuer and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling to the extent permitted by law. The Notes are the obligation of the Issuer, initially in aggregate principal amount of $300,000,000. The Issuer may issue an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes under the Indenture. Any such Additional Notes that are actually issued shall be treated as issued and outstanding Notes (and as the same series (with identical terms other than with respect to the issue date and first payment of interest) as the initial Notes for the purposes indicated in Section 3.02 of the Supplemental Indenture).
Indenture
5. . (a) At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
Optional Redemption
(b) To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect of the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the
 
Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 20 basis points, plus in either case, any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
For purposes of determining the Redemption Price, the following definitions shall apply:
means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
"Comparable Treasury Issue"
means, for any Redemption Date, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date.
"Comparable Treasury Price"
means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Independent Investment Banker"
"" means each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC or their respective affiliates which are primary U.S. government securities dealers in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), and their respective successors; , that if either of the foregoing and its affiliates and subsidiaries shall not be a Primary Treasury Dealer at the appropriate time, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations"
means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity (computed by the Company as of the second Business Day immediately preceding such Redemption Date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Treasury Rate"
The election of the Issuer to redeem any Notes need not be evidenced by a Board Resolution.
6. . The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes or to repurchase them at the option of the Holders.
Mandatory Redemption
 
7. . Any notice of redemption shall be given at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed. Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption and with respect to which the Redemption Price has been paid.
Notice of Redemption
8. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Security Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes or other governmental charges imposed in relation thereto.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
9. . The registered holder of a Note shall be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
10. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby, any past default relating to the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities waive any other past default under the Indenture. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented for any of the purposes set forth in Section 901 of the Indenture, including to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and provide for the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Indenture, to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights under the Indenture of any Holder of the Notes in any material respect, to comply with the requirements of the Commission to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture of a successor or additional Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Issuer or any additional Events of Default, to secure the Notes or to establish the form or terms of any other series of Securities.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
11. . Events of Default with respect to the Notes include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes; (ii) default in payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes when due at Stated Maturity, upon redemption or otherwise; (iii) default in the performance or breach of any covenant of the Company in the Indenture (other than a covenant referred to in clause (i) or (ii) or included in the Indenture for the sole benefit of a series of Securities other than the Notes), and continuance of such default for a period of 90 days (or, in the case of a default under the covenant in Section 704 of the Indenture, 120 days) after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby a written notice specifying such default and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice
Events of Defaults and Acceleration
 
is a "Notice of Default" under the Indenture; and (iv) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to the Issuer. If any Event of Default referred to in clause (i) or (ii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable. If an Event of Default referred to in clause (iii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such default, including the Notes, may declare all such Securities to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default referred to in clause (iv), all Outstanding Securities shall become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture.
12. . This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent.
Authentication
13. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
14. . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers
The Issuer shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
FMC Technologies, Inc.
5875 North Sam Houston Parkway West
Houston, Texas 77086
Attention: General Counsel
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
and irrevocably appoint 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
Date:
            
Your Signature:
                                                                             
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note)
 
The original principal amount of this Global Note is $300,000,000. The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 
 

Exhibit 4.4
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A:     Form of Note
 
THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of September 21, 2012 (this "Supplemental Indenture"), between FMC Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"),
WHEREAS, the Issuer has entered into an Indenture, dated as of the date hereof (the "Original Indenture"), with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee;
WHEREAS, the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";
WHEREAS, under Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Original Indenture, the form and terms of a new series of Securities (as defined in the Original Indenture) may at any time be established by a supplemental indenture executed by the Issuer and the Trustee;
WHEREAS, the Issuer proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of Securities; and
WHEREAS, all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture and to make it a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer have been done or performed.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.01.
Establishment of New Series.
(a) There is hereby established a new series of Securities to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Issuer's 3.45% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "Notes").
(b) There are to be authenticated and delivered $500,000,000 principal amount of Notes on the Issue Date, and from time to time thereafter there may be authenticated and delivered an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes.
(c) The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The Depositary with respect to the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
(d) Each Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear interest as provided in paragraph 1 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto.
(e) No Additional Amounts shall be payable in relation to the Notes.
(f) If and to the extent that the provisions of the Original Indenture are duplicative of, or in contradiction with, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
Section 2.01. . All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined below shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Original Indenture. The following are additional definitions used in this Supplemental Indenture:
Definitions in the Indenture
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 3.02 of this Supplemental Indenture.
Additional Notes
"" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar United States federal or state law (or any similar foreign law) for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Act
or means a Note that is executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with the Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and which shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all the Outstanding Notes or any portion thereof.
"Global Security"
"Global Note"
means the date on which the Notes are initially issued under the Indenture.
"Issue Date"
has the meaning assigned to it in Section 1.01(a) hereof, and includes both the Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes.
"Notes"
Section 3.01. . The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities, and the Notes and Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this Supplemental Indenture, and the Issuer and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
Form
Section 3.02. . The Issuer may, from time to time, issue an unlimited amount of additional Notes ("Additional Notes") under the Indenture, which shall be issued in the same form as the Notes issued on the Issue Date and which shall have identical terms as the Notes issued on the Issue Date other than with respect to the issue date and first payment of interest. The Notes issued on the Issue Date shall be limited in aggregate principal amount to $500,000,000, subject to the provisions of Section 306 of the Original Indenture. The Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes subsequently issued shall be treated as a single series for purposes of giving of notices, consents, waivers, amendments and taking any other action permitted under the Indenture and for purposes of interest accrual and redemptions.
Issuance of Additional Notes
 
Section 4.01. .
Optional Redemption
(a) At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
(b) To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto.
(c) Any redemption pursuant to this Section 4.01 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article Eleven of the Original Indenture. The actual Redemption Price, calculated as provided in paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto, shall be certified in writing to the Trustee by the Company no later than one Business Day prior to each Redemption Date.
Section 4.02. . The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes and shall have no obligation to repurchase any Notes at the option of the Holders.
Mandatory Redemption
Section 5.01. . This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Integral Part
Section 5.02. . The Original Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
Section 5.03. . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. The exchange of copies of this Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Supplemental Indenture for all purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
Counterparts
Section 5.04. . .
Governing Law
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
 
Section 5.05. . The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture and shall not be liable in connection therewith. The rights and duties of the Trustee shall be determined by the express provisions of the Original Indenture and, except as expressly set forth in this Supplemental Indenture, nothing in this Supplemental Indenture shall in any way modify or otherwise affect the Trustee's rights and duties thereunder.
Trustee Makes No Representation; Trustee's Rights and Duties
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
FMC TECHNOLOGIES, INC., a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to             , or registered assigns, the principal sum of $            Dollars [or such greater or lesser amount as may be endorsed on the Schedule attached hereto]
1
on October 1, 2022.
Interest Payment Dates: April 1 and October 1
Record Dates: March 15 and September 15
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
[UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO HEREIN.]
2
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
1. . FMC Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 3.45% per annum from September 21, 2012 until maturity. The Issuer shall pay interest semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each such year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date"). Interest on the Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a Regular Record Date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be April 1, 2013. The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at the same rate; and it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest; Additional Interest
provided
provided
further
 
 
2. . The Issuer shall pay interest on the Notes (except Defaulted Interest) to the Persons who are Holders of Notes at the close of business on the March 15 or September 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 307 of the Original Indenture with respect to Defaulted Interest, and the Issuer shall pay principal (and premium, if any) of the Notes upon surrender thereof to the Trustee or a Paying Agent on or after the Stated Maturity thereof. The Notes shall be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for such purpose (which initially is the corporate trust office of U.S. Bank National Association at 100 Wall Street, Suite 1600, New York, New York 10005) or, at the option of the Issuer, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds shall be required with respect to principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, (a) each Global Security and (b) all other Notes aggregating at least $1,000,000 in principal amount the Holder of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuer or the Paying Agent to an account in the United States prior to the applicable record date. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
provided
3. . Initially, U.S. Bank National Association, the Trustee under the Indenture, has been appointed to act as Paying Agent and Security Registrar. The Issuer may change any Paying Agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Issuer may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
4. . The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of September 21, 2012 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 21, 2012 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Issuer and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling to the extent permitted by law. The Notes are the obligation of the Issuer, initially in aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000. The Issuer may issue an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes under the Indenture. Any such Additional Notes that are actually issued shall be treated as issued and outstanding Notes (and as the same series (with identical terms other than with respect to the issue date and first payment of interest) as the initial Notes for the purposes indicated in Section 3.02 of the Supplemental Indenture).
Indenture
5. . (a) At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
Optional Redemption
(b) To redeem the Notes prior to July 1, 2022, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect of the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the
 
Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 25 basis points, plus in either case, any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). To redeem the Notes on or after July 1, 2022, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
For purposes of determining the Redemption Price with respect to any Redemption Date prior to July 1, 2022, the following definitions shall apply:
means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
"Comparable Treasury Issue"
means, for any Redemption Date, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date.
"Comparable Treasury Price"
means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Independent Investment Banker"
means each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC or their respective affiliates which are primary U.S. government securities dealers in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), and their respective successors; , that if either of the foregoing and its affiliates and subsidiaries shall not be a Primary Treasury Dealer at the appropriate time, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
"Reference Treasury Dealer"
provided, however
means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations"
means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity (computed by the Company as of the second Business Day immediately preceding such Redemption Date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Treasury Rate"
 
The election of the Issuer to redeem any Notes need not be evidenced by a Board Resolution.
6. . The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes or to repurchase them at the option of the Holders.
Mandatory Redemption
7. . Any notice of redemption shall be given at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed. Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption and with respect to which the Redemption Price has been paid.
Notice of Redemption
8. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Security Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes or other governmental charges imposed in relation thereto.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
9. . The registered holder of a Note shall be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
10. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby, any past default relating to the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities waive any other past default under the Indenture. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented for any of the purposes set forth in Section 901 of the Indenture, including to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and provide for the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Indenture, to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights under the Indenture of any Holder of the Notes in any material respect, to comply with the requirements of the Commission to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture of a successor or additional Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Issuer or any additional Events of Default, to secure the Notes or to establish the form or terms of any other series of Securities.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
11. . Events of Default with respect to the Notes include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes; (ii) default in payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes when due at Stated Maturity, upon redemption or otherwise; (iii) default in the performance or breach of any
Events of Defaults and Acceleration
 
covenant of the Company in the Indenture (other than a covenant referred to in clause (i) or (ii) or included in the Indenture for the sole benefit of a series of Securities other than the Notes), and continuance of such default for a period of 90 days (or, in the case of a default under the covenant in Section 704 of the Indenture, 120 days) after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby a written notice specifying such default and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" under the Indenture; and (iv) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to the Issuer. If any Event of Default referred to in clause (i) or (ii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable. If an Event of Default referred to in clause (iii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such default, including the Notes, may declare all such Securities to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default referred to in clause (iv), all Outstanding Securities shall become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture.
12. . This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an Authenticating Agent.
Authentication
13. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
14. . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers
The Issuer shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
FMC Technologies, Inc.
5875 North Sam Houston Parkway West
Houston, Texas 77086
Attention: General Counsel
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
and irrevocably appoint 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
Date:
                    
Your Signature:
                                                                                 
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note)
 
The original principal amount of this Global Note is $500,000,000. The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 
 


