FILE:FII/FII-8K-20040203175118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 3, 2004, Federated Investors, Inc. issued a press release and a letter from its CEO and distributed a letter from the Federated Funds' Directors to Fund shareholders. These items are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, respectively.
 
Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Federated Investors Announces $7.6 Million Restoration Fund
 
 
 
 
PITTSBURGH, PA  February 3, 2004  Federated Investors (NYSE: FII) today announced that a special committee of its Board of Directors has completed its assessment of the impact of past mutual fund trading issues. As a result of this review, which has been reported to the Company's Board of Directors, the Company also announced a number of remedial actions.
 
$7.6 Million Restoration Fund
 
As previously reported, the Independent Trustees of the Federated mutual funds retained an independent expert, Cornerstone Research, a provider of financial and economic analysis, to determine the impact on the funds from trading activities identified in the review conducted by the Company's special investigative committee and by counsel to the Independent Trustees. Cornerstone provided its findings to the Independent Trustees, who shared the findings with the Company's Board of Directors.
 
Based on Cornerstone's findings, the Independent Trustees of the Federated mutual funds and the Company's Board announced the establishment by Federated Investors of a restoration fund of approximately $7.6 million. The Independent Trustees have not yet determined how to distribute the restoration funds and no government agency has passed on the establishment or amount of the restoration fund.
 
The $7.6 million figure, as determined by Cornerstone, includes: (1) approximately $4.8 million related to the detrimental impact on the funds from frequent trading activity, (2) approximately $2 million related to the possible detrimental impact on the funds that may have resulted from orders incorrectly accepted by Federated employees after the funds' closing times, (3) fees of approximately $420,000 received by the Company from assets invested as a result of frequent trading arrangements, and (4) approximately $355,000 of interest on these amounts.
 
Federated's fourth quarter 2003 financial results will include a charge of approximately $7.6 million for the restoration fund and approximately $12.4 million for other expenses related to the review, including those of the funds. The amount does not include fines, penalties or other amounts that may be sought by governmental agencies or through claims asserted in private litigation.
 
Federated Announces Restoration Fund
February 3, 2004
Page 2 of 5
 
Plan to Outsource Transfer Agency Function
 
The Company, with the concurrence of the Independent Trustees of Federated's mutual funds, announced its intent to outsource its transfer agent functions to Boston Financial Data Services ("Boston Financial"). The Company has entered into a non-binding letter of intent with Boston Financial and its parent company, State Street Bank & Trust Company, regarding negotiation of an agreement to effect the outsourcing of transfer agent activities by June 30, 2004. This will permit the Company to focus on its core business of investment management and mutual fund distribution. Boston Financial is one of the nation's premier transfer agents and a leading provider of services to the mutual fund industry.
 
Report on Frequent Trading
 
The Company has completed its analysis of the unreviewed internal trading reports discussed in its November 25th press release. The completed analysis indicates that one client appears to have made one offsetting trade of approximately $125,000 that might have been prevented had the reports been reviewed on a timely basis. The review found that there was no arrangement permitting this trade and that no other clients or accounts covered by the unreviewed internal trading reports made such trades.
 
Separately, Federated is sanctioning two Company officers who, under the belief that such trading would not be detrimental to the funds involved, permitted frequent trading by one hedge fund investor that was reported in the Company's November 25
th
press release.
 
Report on Late Acceptance of Trades
 
The Company has completed its assessment of the impact of orders accepted after the stated closing times for its fluctuating net asset value funds over the past five years. The review found no evidence that the Company or any of its employees had arranged with investors to accept such trades.
 
The review found additional instances in which employees, as previously reported, incorrectly accepted fund orders that were placed after the funds' closing times and received that day's prices. It appears that orders received after 4:00 p.m. were inadequately monitored and there was insufficient oversight to correct these errors. The Company has increased oversight of orders processed after 4:00 p.m. to help ensure that no orders are incorrectly accepted after the funds' closing times.
 
The review determined that during the past five years, the orders incorrectly accepted by Federated employees amounted to no more than a fraction of one percent of the total orders they processed, and that these incorrectly accepted orders had no material impact on the funds. To avoid further delay, Federated has decided to reimburse the funds for any potential losses that might have resulted from the erroneous entry of trades after 4:00 p.m. To that end, the restoration fund includes an amount that represents the potential loss to the funds from any order processed after 4:00 p.m., where it could not yet be determined to the satisfaction of the funds' Independent Trustees that the order was actually placed before such time. The Company believes that this amount exceeds the losses actually incurred by the funds.
Federated Announces Restoration Fund
February 3, 2004
Page 3 of 5
 
The review of late acceptance of trades was limited to orders processed directly by employees of the Company. Most trades in Federated mutual funds are handled by intermediaries, on which the Company, in accordance with industry practice, relies to accept orders. Trades from these intermediaries were not included in the review of late trading.
 
The review of fluctuating net asset value fund orders processed after 4:00 p.m. will continue for purposes of determining the restoration amounts for individual funds.
 
Review of Employee Trading
 
Federated's review examined orders taken from employees after 4:00 p.m. during the past five years to determine if any of these orders were among those incorrectly accepted after the funds' closing times. This review identified one employee who, between January 1999 and March 2003, regularly placed orders after the funds' closing times. The transactions ranged in amount from approximately $26,000 to less than $100. The Company has terminated the individual's employment.
 
This review also found that an employee in one instance incorrectly accepted orders for approximately $52,000 from a Company officer after the applicable funds' closing times. The officer has paid the funds for the difference between the correct share prices and the prices used in processing the orders and is being sanctioned by the Company.
 
The review also examined personal trading in Federated mutual funds, including trading in the Company's 401(k) plan, by employees subject to the Company's Code of Ethics for Personal Trading. This group includes the Company's senior officers, portfolio managers, investment analysts and portfolio traders. As permitted by regulations and consistent with industry standards, during the period covered by the review, the Company's Code of Ethics did not specifically address trading in mutual funds. The Company has modified its Code of Ethics to require review of Federated mutual fund trading and establish minimum holding periods.
 
Federated's review found no personal trading by portfolio managers that violated the Company's Code of Ethics for Personal Trading, industry regulations or the Company's 401(k) plan policies. The review did identify two portfolio managers who had personal trades in the Company 401(k) plan in funds that they managed. One portfolio manager had two offsetting trades over a five-month period, with durations of 35 and 76 days in amounts of approximately $600,000. The other manager had seven offsetting trades in a 21-month period, with durations from nine to 62 days in amounts of up to $160,000. Despite the fact that Cornerstone determined that these trades had no material detrimental impact on the funds, the Company regards the trades as unacceptable and is sanctioning both individuals. The internal review found no other cases in which employees engaged in trading that other shareholders may not have been permitted to engage in under the Company's frequent trading procedures.
Federated Announces Restoration Fund
February 3, 2004
Page 4 of 5
 
Federated's Actions
 
Federated has taken several remedial steps to reinforce its commitment to fund shareholders. In addition to establishment of the restoration fund and the plan to outsource the transfer agent function, the Company has taken remedial actions addressing the following areas:
 
 Federated has retained an independent expert, KPMG, a leading international audit and tax firm, to conduct a review of the Company's internal audit and compliance functions and recommend appropriate enhancements. They have been asked to examine Federated's current structure, staffing, policies and procedures to ensure that they reflect industry best practices and recent regulatory guidance. KPMG will be reporting its findings and recommendations to the Chief Legal Officer and the Company's Audit Committee for review and implementation. In addition, while Federated has always maintained an internal compliance function, the Company has enhanced the compliance function by altering the reporting structure to provide a direct report by the head of compliance to the audit committee of the Federated funds, which is composed of Independent Directors.
Internal Audit and Compliance
 
 Federated has implemented enhancements to its existing procedures for monitoring frequent trading activity potentially detrimental to its funds. In advance of outsourcing the transfer agent function to Boston Financial, Federated has taken a number of immediate steps to help ensure that no orders are incorrectly accepted by its employees after the funds' closing times. The Company has conducted extensive testing of trading interfaces and implemented the active monitoring of post-4:00 p.m. telephone orders. Furthermore, Federated had separately asked KPMG to review frequent and late trading procedures and recommend further enhancements. KPMG is nearing completion of its review.
Transfer Agent
 
 Federated has implemented several changes to its Code of Ethics for Personal Trading. These include a requirement that the Company's officers and investment personnel must report to the compliance department all trades in Federated's fluctuating net asset value mutual funds, other than certain short-term fixed-income funds. In addition, Federated has put in place a new policy requiring Company officers and investment personnel to hold personal investments in those funds for a minimum of 60 days.
Personal Trading Policies
 
 Federated is continuing to enhance its employee training program. This includes recent remedial training for Investor Services personnel which focused on frequent trading monitoring and adherence to fund prospectus cut-off times. Federated has also communicated with its investment and sales personnel reinforcing current policies and procedures. Federated is further implementing a formal corporate compliance training program for employees regarding the Company's policies and procedures.
Employee Training
Federated Announces Restoration Fund
February 3, 2004
Page 5 of 5
 
Conclusion
 
Beyond those items noted above and in the Company's November 25th press release, no additional arrangements for frequent trading or patterns of late trading have been found. The Company is continuing to cooperate with ongoing governmental investigations, and will conduct further investigation as necessary.
 
is one of the largest investment managers in the United States, managing approximately $198 billion in mutual funds and separate accounts as of December 31, 2003, including $143 billion in money market assets, $29.5 billion in fixed-income assets and $25.5 billion in equity assets. Institutions and financial professionals, on behalf of individual investors, invest in Federated's equity, international/global, bond and money market products.
Federated Investors, Inc.
 
In open-end managed assets, Federated ranks in the top five percent of equity asset managers, the top four percent of fixed income asset managers, and the top two percent of money market asset managers in the industry
1
. Federated provides comprehensive investment management to nearly 5,900 institutions and intermediaries including corporations, government entities, insurance companies, foundations and endowments, banks and broker/dealers. For more information, visit .
www.federatedinvestors.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
February 3, 2004
 
Dear Valued Clients and Fellow Shareholders,
 
Over the past few months, I have written to you to provide information regarding our internal review of past mutual fund trading practices. With the help of legal and financial experts we have completed an extensive assessment of the impact of these issues. Strengthening the trust and confidence of investors has been our focus and we truly appreciate your patience and support during our review process.
 
From the start, I stated that Federated was committed to taking remedial actions when and as appropriate, including compensating the funds for the impact these transactions may have had on them. Today, Federated is announcing a restoration fund of approximately $7.6 million and a number of other remedial actions. The details are contained in the attached statement.
 
During the course of the review, Federated identified deviations from our standards and procedures. These deviations are contrary to the Federated culture and the ethics that we have made a cornerstone of the Company throughout our history and we regret their occurrence.
 
In addition to the restoration fund, we are taking a number of actions that will enhance existing procedures and provide additional controls to prevent any recurrence of these issues. One of the steps we are announcing is our intent to outsource our transfer agent function to Boston Financial Data Services, one of the nation's premier transfer agents and a leading provider of services to mutual funds.
 
We understand the concerns raised by the industry-wide investigations and believe that the actions we are announcing today reinforce our commitment to work in the best interest of fund shareholders. We continue to cooperate with regulators.
 
The lessons learned from our review serve to heighten our dedication to safeguarding the investments of our clients and protecting the interests of our shareholders. This has been the hallmark of Federated for the past half century and we look forward to building on this commitment as we move forward.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
February 3, 2004
 
Dear Shareholder:
 
The Federated Funds have a well-earned reputation for the highest levels of integrity in the mutual fund industry. That is because Federated and the Independent Directors for the Federated Funds have striven to ensure not only that all legal standards are met and exceeded, but that the highest ethical standards are met in the daily operations of the Funds.
 
Under these circumstances, the Independent Directors, as well as the other directors, were startled to learn of any deviation from these standards. Even the slightest deviation is an anathema to the total commitment to integrity that is the hallmark of the Federated Funds. Our immediate response was to participate actively in the review conducted by Federated and directly to employ independent experts to determine any harm to the Funds. At the inception of this effort, all the directors resolved, and Federated agreed, that any possible losses to the Funds would be completely restored, and any question about the extent of the loss would be resolved in favor of the Funds.
 
We pursued a comprehensive investigation in order to be certain that we had unearthed the fundamental causes of any failure of our practices and procedures and any losses resulting from these failures. We insisted on such an effort in the face of public or media criticism that the investigation was lasting too long and should be accelerated. Instead in accordance with our commitment to shareholders, we placed ourselves in the position of shareholders who deserve the most complete and thorough analysis.
 
The analysis has largely been completed. With respect to frequent trading there were a few instances in which Federated employees made arrangements with customers that permitted frequent trading. Each arrangement involved the imposition of conditions that were intended to avoid detriment to the Funds involved. Regrettably, these efforts were insufficient. With respect to late trading, we have found no evidence of any intentional wrongdoing. The failure to adhere to procedures was due essentially to the desire of employees to satisfy clients. Regardless of the motivation, however, the failure to adhere to procedures will not be tolerated. In the case of both frequent and late trading, each Federated Fund will be restored in an amount that at least meets the maximum loss it realized.
 
In addition, to such compensation for the past, there have also been organizational restructuring, personnel changes and modifications of duties of other personnel. Modifications, clarifications and strengthening of policies and procedures have been implemented in order to ensure that these recent lapses are never repeated. In this vein, we welcome the new Securities and Exchange Commission regulation to create a new chief compliance officer with the responsibility of ascertaining total compliance with all policies and procedures. Therefore, beginning immediately, the head of compliance will have a direct reporting line to the audit committee of the Federated Funds, which is comprised of Independent Directors and will have unfettered access to all Independent Directors.
Additional proposals recently advocated by the SEC and others have long been in place at Federated. For example, a current mutual fund industry proposal that would require funds to increase the percentage of independent directors on the board to seventy-five percent has been in place at Federated for many years. A proposal to provide independent directors with their own expert counsel and other staff has been in place at Federated for many years. Suggestions that independent directors meet separately from other directors and management to assure independent oversight simply reflect a historic practice at Federated where independent directors meet separately numerous times every year. Similarly, recent requirements that independent directors with vast experience and background dominate Fund audit committees reflect the long-term practice at Federated.
 
The Federated culture has always been open to any questions or concerns of independent directors. The Independent Directors meet separately with any individual member of management they choose and Federated management has always been totally cooperative in responding to these and other directives.
 
The commitment of Federated Independent Directors to shareholders is complete. Please be assured that we view the lapses identified in the investigation as serious and deeply regrettable. We, like you, are deeply disappointed by these developments and we are committed to addressing the challenges presented and restoring your trust in the Funds. In so doing, we will continue to exceed regulatory and industry standards and to pursue our duty of due diligence to oversee the operation of the Federated Funds at the highest level of integrity.
 
Sincerely,
 
/s/    John E. Murray, Jr.
Chairman
Federated Independent Directors.


