FILE:FII/FII-8K-20060929172630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On July 14, 2006, Federated Investors, Inc. (Federated) filed under this item of Form 8-K to report its acquisition of MDTA LLC. The Form 8-K filed on July 20, 2006 is being amended hereby as permitted by Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits to file both the unaudited financial statements of MDTA LLC for the period specified in Rule 3-05 (b) of Regulation S-X and the unaudited pro forma financial statements required pursuant to Article 11 of Regulation S-X (Amendment No. 2).
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following exhibits are incorporated by reference or filed herewith:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements of Business Acquired:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MDTA LLC
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Unaudited
 
MDTA LLC (formerly Harris Bretall Sullivan & Smith L.L.C., the "Company") is a Delaware limited liability company which was formed on February 13, 1997 and started business on November 13, 1997. The principal business activity of the Company is to provide investment advisory services to high-net-worth individuals and institutions primarily through separately managed accounts. The Company also acts as advisor to the MDT mutual funds and various private investment companies. The members of the Company consist of current and former employees and HBSS Acquistion Co., a wholly owned subsidiary of Value Asset Management LLC. Each member of the Company has limited liability. The Company has members who have different priorities to income, losses and distributions. The Company has a final termination date of December 31, 2046.
 
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and entities in which the Company holds a controlling financial interest. The Company provides for minority interests in consolidated entities for which the Company's controlling financial interest is less than 100 percent. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 04-5, "Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights" ("EITF 04-5"). EITF 04-5 provides guidance for determining whether a general partner controls a limited partnership. The guidance broadly provides that the general partner in a limited partnership is presumed to control that limited partnership. However, that presumption can be overcome if the limited partners have either substantive kick-out rights or substantive participating rights.
The Company is the General Partner of five limited partnerships and the managing member of one limited liability company. The partnerships and limited liability company are private investment companies. The Company is presumed to control these entities. Accordingly, beginning on January 1, 2006, the net assets of the private investment companies and the results of the operations have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Total assets at March 31, 2006, included $16,799,338 (primarily investment securities at market value and cash), total liabilities included $647,608 (primarily payables for securities purchased), and $16,132,344 was reflected as minority interest.
Revenue Recognition
The Company earns management fees based on a percentage of the assets under the Company's management. In general, the Company bills quarterly in advance for such fees earned in accordance with the related contractual agreements.
 
MDTA LLC
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Unaudited
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of a highly liquid short-term investment in a money market account. The Company maintains its cash balances in various operating and money market accounts at one financial institution which are insured up to $100,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Company had balances in excess of the insurable amount periodically throughout the year.
Income Taxes
The Company is a limited liability company and is treated as a partnership for tax purposes. Accordingly, the results of operations of the Company for federal and state income tax purposes will be reflected on the individual income tax returns of the members.
Fixed Assets
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed on the straight-line or declining-balance methods over the useful lives of the assets, which range from 3 to 10 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the term of the lease.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess cost of purchased companies over the fair value of net assets acquired. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, ("SFAS No. 142") the Company performs an impairment test on the goodwill on at least an annual basis.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
,
Concentration of Credit Risk
Financial instruments which potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk include trade receivables. The Company performs ongoing evaluations of customers' financial condition and generally does not require collateral.
 
MDTA LLC
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Unaudited
 
Receivables consist of the following:
 
 
Other current assets consist of the following:
 
 
Fixed assets consist of the following:
 
Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 was $16,407 and $27,077, respectively.
 
MDTA LLC
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Unaudited
 
Accrued expenses consist of the following:
 
 
The Company has available a $7,000,000 revolving line of credit from one of its members that currently bears interest at prime plus three points pursuant to a letter of understanding executed on April 5, 2005. The balance outstanding at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 under the line of credit was $8,329,184 and $8,122,723, respectively, including cumulative accrued interest.
Interest expense on the line of credit for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 was $206,462 and $771,058, respectively.
 
In the normal course of business, the Company is involved with certain legal matters. In the opinion of management, the outcome of this litigation will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
 
On July 14, 2006, members of the Company sold their interests to Federated Investors, Inc. ("Federated"). The transaction included initial purchase payments of approximately $110 million, the majority of which were paid at closing, and a series of contingent payments totaling as much as $130 million over the next three years based on growth. As of the closing, Federated owned approximately 89% of the outstanding equity interests of the Company and had the right to acquire the remaining 11% by June 2007.
 

Exhibit 99.3
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements:
 
 
Federated Investors, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet
As of March 31, 2006
(dollars in thousands)
 
See notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements.
 
Federated Investors, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income
For the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
(dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 
See notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements.
 
Federated Investors, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income
For the Year Ended December 31, 2005
(dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 
See notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements.
 
(1) Basis of presentation
On July 14, 2006, Federated Investors, Inc. (Federated) completed the acquisition of MDTA LLC (MDTA)(Acquisition). Federated acquired approximately 89 percent of the outstanding equity interests of MDTA with a right to acquire the remaining 11 percent by June 30, 2007. The transaction includes an initial purchase payment of approximately $102 million, an additional purchase price payment of approximately $8 million in the first half of 2007 upon acquisition of the remaining 11 percent outstanding equity interests and a series of contingent payments totaling as much as $130 million over the next three years based on growth. The transaction was accounted for as a purchase under U.S. GAAP.
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2006 has been prepared to give effect to the acquisition as if such transaction occurred on March 31, 2006. The unaudited statements of income for the three months ended March 31, 2006, and for the year ended December 31, 2005, have been prepared to give effect to the Acquisition as if such transaction occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.
The following is a description of the individual columns included in the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements:
The information presented as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2006, was derived from Federated's unaudited historical consolidated financial statements. The information for the year ended December 31, 2005, was derived from Federated's audited consolidated financial statements for 2005.
Federated:
The information presented as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2006, was derived from MDTA's unaudited historical financial statements. The information for the year ended December 31, 2005, was derived from MDTA's audited financial statements for 2005. Information presented in this column includes certain reclassifications to conform MDTA's financial statements with Federated's presentation.
MDTA LLC:
The pro forma adjustments are based on available information and certain assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual adjustments to record the purchase could be different. The adjustments represent adjustments that are directly attributable to the Acquisition and are considered to have a continuing impact on the financial position and results of operations of Federated.
Pro Forma Adjustments:
 
These unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements and notes thereto are provided for informational purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the actual financial position or results of operations had such transaction been completed on the dates indicated or of future results of operations. In addition, the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements do not include any synergies that may be realized as a result of combining the entities.
These unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with Federated's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2006, and Current Report on Form 8-K as amended filed July 20, 2006.
(2) Pro forma adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


