FILE:FII/FII-8K-20081210085857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 5, 2008 Federated Investors, Inc. (Federated) closed on a transaction to acquire certain assets of David W. Tice & Associates LLC that relate to the management of the $1.1 billion Prudent Bear Fund and the $363.8 million Prudent Global Income Fund (the Prudent Bear Funds). In connection with the acquisition, Federated will re-brand the Prudent Bear Funds as the newly created Federated Prudent Bear Fund and the Federated Prudent Global Income Fund. The acquisition was consummated pursuant to the terms of a definitive agreement between Federated and David W. Tice & Associates LLC dated July 14, 2008.
The transaction includes an initial cash purchase payment of $43 million, and a series of contingent payments totaling as much as $99.5 million over the next four years based on certain revenue growth targets. Various assets, primarily intangible assets, will be recorded upon completion of the independent appraiser's valuation. Both Federated and David W. Tice & Associates LLC have made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the agreement. In addition, certain covenants relating to non-competition and non-solicitation were made by David W. Tice & Associates LLC and certain key employees. Attached herewith as Exhibit 99.1 is a press release issued by Federated with additional details concerning this transaction.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The information required by this item is not being furnished herewith, but will be furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission via amendment as soon as practicable, but not later than 71 calendar days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K was required to be filed.
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1  Press release issued by Federated Investors, Inc. dated December 9, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Federated Investors, Inc. Completes Acquisition Involving Prudent Bear and Prudent Global Income Funds
 
 
(PITTSBURGH, Pa., December 9, 2008)  Federated Investors, Inc. (NYSE: FII), one of the nation's largest investment managers, today announced that it completed the acquisition of certain assets of David W. Tice & Associates LLC that relate to the management of the $1.1 billion Prudent Bear Fund and the $363.8 million Prudent Global Income Fund. The announcement was made by J. Christopher Donahue, president and chief executive officer of Federated, and David W. Tice, founder of David W. Tice & Associates.
In connection with the transaction, the funds were reorganized and are now Federated Prudent Bear Fund and Federated Prudent Global Income Fund. Each fund will be available in A, C and IS shares.
Federated Prudent Bear Fund offers investors portfolio diversification through an inverse correlation to the U.S. stock market, reduced portfolio volatility through risk controls and a potential hedge against inflation through its strategic positions in precious metal and mining stocks. Federated Prudent Global Income Fund offers investors a portfolio that performs in the opposite direction of the U.S. dollar with a management team that is experienced in economic analysis and currency transactions. The fund does not use derivatives and does not take credit, duration or counter-party risk.
"The Federated Prudent Bear Fund and the Federated Prudent Global Income Fund offer clients strong historical performance, a unique investing approach and an experienced management team, all of which combine to provide Federated's clients with the solid alternative-investment choices that they seek," said Donahue.
Doug Noland joins Federated as senior vice president and senior portfolio manager and continues to be responsible for the day-to-day management of both funds. Noland has almost 19 years of short-side fund-management experience, including nearly 10 years of work on the Prudent funds.
 
 
 
Federated Completes Transaction
Dec. 9, 2008
Page 2 of 3
 
David W. Tice, who founded the funds and was instrumental in building them into the well-recognized products that they are today, will join Federated as a chief portfolio strategist. In this role, he will articulate the team's bearish view, interpret how market and economic events could impact the funds and explain the philosophy of the Federated Prudent funds to a wide cross section of clients including banks, broker/dealers and institutional investors.
Joining Noland and Tice at Federated from the Prudent funds are five key investment professionals. Ryan Bend and Chad Hudson join Federated as portfolio managers. Lila Manassa joins Federated as a senior investment analyst; Robert Schulte-Albert joins as an investment analyst; and James Gemmel joins as an associate investment analyst.
The purchase price of the transaction included a $43.0 million initial payment and contingent payments of up to $99.5 million over the next four years.
Federated Investors, Inc. is one of the largest investment managers in the United States, managing $344 billion in assets as of Sept. 30, 2008. With 147 mutual funds and a variety of separately managed account options, Federated provides comprehensive investment management to nearly 5,400 institutions and intermediaries including corporations, government entities, insurance companies, foundations and endowments, banks and broker/dealers. For more information, visit .
FederatedInvestors.com
Certain statements in this press release, such as those related to the management of the Prudent funds, constitute forward-looking statements, which involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements of the company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Among other risks and uncertainties are the ability of the company to manage successfully the Prudent funds and the risk factors discussed in the company's annual and quarterly reports as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result, no assurance can be given as to future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, and neither the company nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of such statements in the future.
Past performance is no guarantee of future results. For fund performance, visit FederatedInvestors.com.
Investors should carefully consider the fund's investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses before investing. To obtain a prospectus containing this and other information, contact us or visit FederatedInvestors.com. Please carefully read the prospectus before investing.
Federated Prudent Bear Fund regularly makes short sales of securities, which involves unlimited risk including the possibility that losses may exceed the original amount invested.
Federated Prudent Global Income Fund invests in foreign securities which will involve greater volatility and political, economic and currency risks and differences in accounting methods. Bonds are sensitive to changes in interest rates and a rise in interest rates can cause a decline in their prices.
The prices of gold and other precious metals may be subject to substantial price fluctuations over short periods of time and may be adversely affected by unpredictable international monetary and political developments.
Considering the increased risks, these funds may not be suitable for all investors.
Diversification does not guarantee a profit nor protect against loss.
Federated Completes Transaction
Dec. 9, 2008
Page 3 of 3
 
Duration is a measure of a security's price sensitivity to changes in interest rates. Securities with longer durations are more sensitive to changes in interest rates than securities of shorter durations.
Federated Securities Corp. is distributor of the Federated funds.
Separately managed accounts are made available through Federated Global Investment Management, Corp.; Federated Investment Counseling; and Federated MDTA LLC, each a registered investment advisor.


