FILE:FII/FII-8K-20080819084719.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 19, 2008, Federated Investors, Inc. (Federated) entered into a $140 million term loan facility by and among Federated, certain of its subsidiaries, PNC Bank, National Association, as agent and one of the lending banks and certain other lending banks (the Term Loan). Federated has an option to increase its borrowings to $150 million during the term of the facility upon commitment from the lending banks. The Term Loan requires quarterly principal payments and a balloon payment when the loan expires on October 31, 2011. The borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest, at the option of Federated, at a defined prime rate or at a spread over the London Interbank Offering Rate ("LIBOR") dependent upon its debt rating or Federal Funds effective rate. Under the Term Loan, Federated can make cash payments for stock repurchases or shareholder dividend payments as long as liquidity of no less than $10 million is maintained during the payment period and certain other covenants are maintained. Certain subsidiaries entered into a Continuing Agreement of Guaranty and Suretyship whereby these subsidiaries guarantee payment of all obligations incurred through the Term Loan. The Term Loan also includes representations, warranties and other financial and non-financial covenants, which are similar in nature to those contained in the $200 Million Revolving Credit Agreement, dated October 31, 2006 (Revolver Loan). The Term Loan, combined with the Revolver Loan, existing liquid assets and cash flow from operations will be used to finance the special dividend payment and share repurchase programs (see Item 8.01), as well as future dividends, acquisition-related payments and reasonably foreseeable cash needs.
 
The disclosure set forth under Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On August 19, 2008, Federated Investors, Inc. issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to announce a special dividend payment to shareholders and a new share repurchase program.
 
(d) Exhibits:
Exhibit 99.1  Press release issued by Federated Investors, Inc. dated August 19, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Federated Investors, Inc. Announces Special Dividend and New Share Repurchase Program
 
 
 
(PITTSBURGH, Pa., August 19, 2008)  Federated Investors, Inc. (NYSE: FII), one of the nation's largest investment managers, today announced that the company's board of directors declared a special cash dividend of $2.76 per share. Dividend payments for Q3 2008 will total $3.00 per share, including the $0.24 dividend paid on Aug. 15, 2008. Federated's solid financial position allowed the board to declare the special dividend to return additional value to shareholders. The special dividend is payable on Sept. 15, 2008 to shareholders of record as of Sept. 9, 2008.
In addition, the board of directors authorized a new share repurchase program that allows Federated to buy back as many as 5 million additional shares of class B common stock in the future. The existing repurchase program has approximately 2.8 million shares remaining and expires at the end of 2008. Since its initial public offering in 1998, Federated has repurchased 36.3 million shares through its existing and prior share repurchase programs.
Federated has also entered into a $140 million term loan agreement. Federated anticipates funding from the term loan combined with the company's existing $200 million revolving credit facility, cash flow from operations and available cash (approximately $135 million as of Aug. 18, 2008) will provide sufficient liquidity to finance the special dividend and share repurchase programs, as well as future dividends, acquisition-related payments and reasonably foreseeable cash needs.
"We believe that the special dividend and the new share repurchase program will provide additional value to our shareholders and that the new term facility gives the company a more efficient capital structure," said Thomas R. Donahue, chief financial officer. "Federated has a strong and flexible balance sheet that positions the company to continue to pursue growth opportunities including acquisitions."
 
 
Federated Announces Special Dividend
Aug. 19, 2008
Page 2 of 2
Federated Investors, Inc. is one of the largest investment managers in the United States, managing $333.5 billion in assets as of June 30, 2008. With 147 mutual funds and a variety of separately managed account options, Federated provides comprehensive investment management to more than 5,400 institutions and intermediaries including corporations, government entities, insurance companies, foundations and endowments, banks and broker/dealers. For more information, visit .
FederatedInvestors.com
Certain statements in this press release, such as those related to the company's liquidity, future uses of cash, capital structure, and ability to pursue growth opportunities, constitute forward-looking statements, which involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements of the company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Other risks and uncertainties include the possibility that the company's credit facilities, cash flow and available cash will not meet its liquidity needs, the company's plans to use cash may change, the company's assumptions regarding its capital structure may prove to be incorrect, and the company may be unable to pursue growth opportunities, as well as the risk factors discussed in the company's annual and quarterly reports as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result, no assurance can be given as to future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, and neither the company nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of such statements in the future.
Federated Securities Corp. is distributor of the Federated funds.
Separately managed accounts are made available through Federated Global Investment Management, Federated Investment Counseling and MDT Advisers, each a registered investment advisor.


