FILE:FII/FII-8K-20081202154712.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 1, 2008 Federated Investors, Inc., (Federated) and Clover Capital Management, Inc. (Clover Capital) amended the terms of its definitive agreement dated September 12, 2008. The primary objective of the amendment is to adjust the initial purchase price and subsequent contingent payments.
 
On December 1, 2008 Federated completed the acquisition of Clover Capital, a Rochester, N.Y.-based investment manager that specializes in value investing and manages $2.1 billion in assets. The acquisition was consummated pursuant to the terms of a definitive agreement between Federated and Clover Capital dated September 12, 2008 as amended December 1, 2008.
The transaction includes an initial cash purchase payment of approximately $30 million, and a series of contingent payments totaling as much as $56 million over the next five years based on growth. Various assets, primarily intangible assets, will be recorded upon completion of the independent appraiser's valuation. Both Federated and Clover Capital have made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the agreement. In addition, certain covenants relating to non-competition and non-solicitation were made by Clover Capital and certain key employees. Attached herewith as Exhibit 99.1 is a press release issued by Federated with additional details concerning this transaction.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The information required by this item is not being furnished herewith, but will be furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission via amendment as soon as practicable, but not later than 71 calendar days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 2, 2008 was filed.
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1  Press release issued by Federated Investors, Inc. dated December 2, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Federated Investors, Inc. Completes Acquisition of Value Manager Clover Capital
 
 
(PITTSBURGH, Pa., December 2, 2008)  Federated Investors, Inc. (NYSE: FII), one of the nation's largest investment managers, today announced the completion of the acquisition of Clover Capital Management Inc., a Rochester, N.Y.-based investment manager. The announcement was made by J. Christopher Donahue, president and chief executive officer of Federated, and Michael E. Jones, the former co-founder, chief executive officer and chief investment officer of Clover Capital, who now joins Federated as senior vice president and senior portfolio manager of Federated Clover Investment Advisors.
Federated Clover, which manages $2.1 billion in assets, becomes Federated's traditional value center of excellence. Federated Clover's headquarters will remain in Rochester with Jones and the current team continuing to lead the organization.
Federated Clover utilizes a comprehensive and rigorous value-based investment process that employs both fundamental research skills and quantitative analytic technology to manage portfolio risk. Federated anticipates that it will launch the Federated Clover Value Fund, Federated Clover Mid Value Fund and Federated Clover Small Value Fund to its broad network of financial-intermediary clients in early 2009.
"The Clover Capital team has consistently delivered above-market returns with lower-than-average risk in the traditional value arena. Combining their performance with Federated's distribution capabilities in the broker/dealer, wealth management and institutional markets offers a solid venture for both firms," Donahue said. "Federated will offer the new Federated Clover funds and strategies as a complement to our existing equity offerings."
is one of the largest investment managers in the United States, managing $344 billion in assets as of Sept. 30, 2008. With 147 mutual funds, as well as a variety of separately managed account options, Federated provides comprehensive investment management worldwide to nearly 5,400 institutions and intermediaries including corporations, government entities, insurance companies, foundations and endowments, banks and broker/dealers. For more information, visit .
Federated Investors, Inc. (NYSE: FII)
FederatedInvestors.com
 
 
 
Federated Completes Clover Capital Acquisition
Dec. 2, 2008
Page 2 of 2
Certain statements in this press release, such as those relating to the impact of the transaction on Federated's ability to create, manage and distribute value-oriented equity products, constitute forward-looking statements, which involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements of the company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Other risks and uncertainties include the possibility that Federated does not successfully complete the acquisition, the possibility that the acquisition does not have a beneficial impact on Federated's ability to create, manage and distribute value-oriented equity products, and the possibility that Federated's plans to introduce new value-oriented products may change, as well as the risk factors discussed in the company's annual and quarterly reports as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result, no assurance can be given as to future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, and neither the company nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of such statements in the future.
This information on the Federated Clover funds is not complete and may be changed. We may not sell these securities until the registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is effective. This is not an offer to sell these securities and is not soliciting an offer to buy these securities in any state where the offer or sale is not permitted.
Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
Federated Securities Corp. is distributor of the Federated funds.
Federated Clover Investment Advisors is a division of Federated Global Investment Management Corp.
Separately managed accounts are made available through Federated Global Investment Management Corp., Federated Investment Counseling and Federated MDTA LLC, each a registered investment advisor.


