FILE:FII/FII-8K-20090211170457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 2, 2008, Federated Investors, Inc. (Federated) filed under this item of Form 8-K its acquisition of Clover Capital Management, Inc. (Clover Capital). The Form 8-K filed on December 2, 2008 is being amended hereby as permitted by Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits to furnish the unaudited pro forma financial statements required pursuant to Article 11 of Regulation S-X (Amendment No. 1).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Federated Investors, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet
As of September 30, 2008
(dollars in thousands)
 
See notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements.
 
Federated Investors, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income
For the Nine Months ended September 30, 2008
(dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 
See notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements.
 
Federated Investors, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income
For the Year Ended December 31, 2007
(dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 
See notes to unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements.
 
(1) Basis of presentation
On December 1, 2008, Federated Investors, Inc. (Federated) completed the acquisition of certain assets of Clover Capital Management, Inc. (Clover Capital) (Acquisition), a Rochester, New York-based investment manager that specializes in value investing. The transaction included an initial cash purchase price for the transaction of $30 million and may require a series of contingent payments totaling as much as $56 million over the next five years based on certain revenue growth targets. The transaction was accounted for as a purchase under U.S. GAAP.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2008 has been prepared to give effect to the Acquisition as if such transaction occurred on September 30, 2008. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, and for the year ended December 31, 2007, have been prepared to give effect to the Acquisition as if such transaction occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.
The following is a description of the individual columns included in the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements:
The information presented as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, was derived from Federated's unaudited historical consolidated financial statements. The information for the year ended December 31, 2007, was derived from Federated's audited consolidated financial statements for 2007.
Federated:
The information presented for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, was derived from Clover Capital's unaudited historical financial statements. The information for the year ended December 31, 2007, was derived from Clover Capital's audited financial statements for 2007. Information presented in this column includes certain reclassifications to conform Clover Capital's financial statements with Federated's presentation.
Clover Capital Management:
The pro forma adjustments are based on available information and certain assumptions that Federated believes are reasonable under the circumstances. The adjustments represent adjustments that are directly attributable to the Acquisition. These adjustments are considered to have a continuing impact on the financial position and results of operations of Federated.
Pro Forma Adjustments:
These unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements and notes thereto are provided for informational purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the actual financial position or
 
results of operations that would have been reported had such transaction been completed on the dates indicated or of future results of operations. In addition, the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements do not include any synergies that may be realized as a result of combining the entities.
These unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with Federated's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 and Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 2, 2008.
(2) Pro forma adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


