FILE:FII/FII-8K-20110615161352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
On June 10, 2011, Federated Investors, Inc. (Federated) entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement by and among Federated, certain of its subsidiaries, PNC Bank, National Association as administrative agent, a syndicate of 19 banks led by PNC Capital Markets LLC as sole bookrunner and joint lead arranger and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. as joint lead arranger (Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement amends and restates Federated's prior $425 million term loan facility dated April 9, 2010. The borrowings of $382.5 million under the Credit Agreement equal the remaining principal balance from the $425 million term loan.
The Credit Agreement also contains a $200 million revolving credit facility. This new revolving credit facility replaces the previous $200 million revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to expire on October 31, 2011, and was terminated in connection with Federated's entry into the Credit Agreement. Federated had no borrowings outstanding on the previous revolving credit facility.
The Credit Agreement expires on June 10, 2016 and requires quarterly principal payments of $10.6 million per quarter for the first three years and $28.3 million per quarter for the fourth and fifth years and a final payment of $28.3 million due upon its expiration. Certain subsidiaries entered into an Amended and Restated Continuing Agreement of Guaranty and Suretyship whereby these subsidiaries guarantee payment of all obligations incurred through the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement also includes representations, warranties and other financial and non-financial covenants.
The borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a reduced spread over the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR), as compared to the prior term loan. The interest rate swap (the Swap) that Federated entered into with PNC Bank, National Association and certain other banks during 2010 to hedge its interest rate risk associated with the prior $425 million term loan remains in effect. Under the Swap, which expires on April 1, 2015, Federated will receive payments based on LIBOR and will make payments based on an annual fixed rate of 3.646%.
ITEM 2.03 CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT.
The disclosure set forth under Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


