Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations December 31, 2003 The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (The St. Paul or the Company) is incorporated as a general business corporation under the laws of the State of Minnesota. The St. Paul and its subsidiaries constitute one of the oldest insurance organizations in the United States, dating back to 1853. We are a management company principally engaged, through our subsidiaries, in providing commercial property liability insurance products and services. We also have a presence in the asset management industry through our 79% majority ownership of Nuveen Investments, Inc. As a management company, we oversee the operations of our subsidiaries and provide them with capital, management and administrative services. Our Internet website address is stpaul.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website, annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our website address is an inactive textual reference only and the contents of the website are not part of this report. OVERVIEW The company generates its return on capital primarily by taking in premiums, net of the expenses to generate those premiums as well as other expenses, and investing them, predominantly in fixed income securities, until the company pays out losses related to the insurance coverage provided. The primary factors impacting returns which are monitored regularly by the company include: the adequacy of premiums charged relative to the risks assumed; investment returns on the premium cash flows; 34 efficiency of the Companys operations and ability of management to control expenses; and the amount and timing of paid losses. Adequacy of premiums The company experienced its fifth consecutive year of generally increasing prices in 2003. These increases exceeded increases in our estimated loss trends, resulting in improved margins and cash flow. Average price increases during 2003 were 20% in our specialty commercial segment and 11% in our commercial lines segment. While the overall absolute level of price increases in 2003 slowed from 2002 levels, we expect overall price increases in 2004 to continue to exceed overall increases in estimated loss trends. However, the property and casualty insurance industry has historically been highly cyclical, and price competition in the years leading up to 1999 generally resulted in declining profitability in the industry. The company has implemented internal management reporting to monitor pricing and profitability, allowing the company to take actions to maximize profitability as pricing or premium adequacy trends change. Investment returns Investment returns are a major component of the companys revenue and profitability. At December 31, 2003, nearly 90% of the companys investment portfolio consisted of fixed income securities, securities on loan and short term investments. Lower rates of return on new money invested in recent years have required higher premium levels to generate the same returns on capital. The Company believes that decreasing interest rates since the beginning of 2000 have been one of the factors causing property liability insurance prices to increase. Likewise, increases in new money investment rates will increase investment income, but may result in increased price competition in the industry as companies could generate the same return on equity at lower premium levels. However, if new money investment rates increase, the value of our fixed income portfolio will decrease. During 2003, the Companys average new money investment rate was 4.5% for taxable bonds and 3.1% for tax exempts, which reduced the average imbedded pre tax yield in our long term fixed income portfolio to 5.7% at December 31, 2003, down from 6.2% a year earlier. The Companys fixed income portfolio maintains a very high credit quality with an average rating at AA+ and a relatively short duration of 3.8 years which mitigates the risks of increasing interest rates and widening credit spreads. During 2003, duration lengthened slightly, from 3.3 years. Efficiency of the operations The property liability industry generally measures expenses as a percentage of written premiums, a component of revenue. Management uses a variety of measures, including the statutory expense ratio, to evaluate its success in controlling expenses. Expenses consist of variable components, such as taxes, fees and commissions that are calculated as a percentage of premium, and fixed components such as salaries, benefits, rent and system costs. The statutory expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2003 was 29.1, an improvement over the comparable 2002 statutory expense ratio of 29.7. While the Company experienced increases in variable costs in the second half of 2003 as premiums grew, the statutory expense ratio declined. A significant portion of the increase in premiums was driven by price increases and not unit or policy increases, and generally did not require commensurate increases in fixed expenses to manage the business. Significant decreases in premiums written in our runoff businesses, combined with continuing expenses to manage those businesses, prevented further improvement in our consolidated expense ratio in 2003. We expect to manage our business in 2004 with a general objective of keeping expenses level, except for variable expenses that vary with premium production, such as premium taxes and commissions. 35 Accordingly, absent unfavorable developments in the pricing environment, we expect our statutory expense ratio to generally remain stable or improve in 2004. The amount and timing of paid losses Management estimates the amount it expects to pay claimants for insured losses and the cost of investigating, resolving and processing those claims. Given the inherent uncertainty in the reserving process and that many of the coverages we offer involve claims that may not ultimately be settled for many years after they are incurred, our estimates may be materially different from the amounts we ultimately pay or incur with respect to insured losses. If our estimates change, we make adjustments to our reserves and these adjustments are reflected in our income statements for the current period. One measure management uses to assess our profitability is our statutory combined ratio, which reflects the sum of the statutory loss ratio (incurred losses as a percentage of earned premium) and the statutory expense ratio described above. Our loss ratio improved from 79.9 in 2002 to 73.4 in 2003. Over the past two years, increasing pricing has significantly improved the combined ratio in our ongoing segments, which dropped from 108.6 in 2001 to 95.8 in 2002 and 91.7 in 2003. Proposed Merger with Travelers Management believes that the Proposed Merger with Travelers Property Casualty Corp., announced on November 17, 2003, will be a transforming event for The St. Paul. Management believes that the Proposed Merger will create a premier property and casualty insurance company that will be well positioned for long term success and the creation of superior shareholder value in the highly competitive property and casualty insurance industry. Management believes that the combined company will have significant product breadth and geographic reach and will be uniquely positioned as the property casualty insurer of choice for agents, brokers and customers across the United States. Management believes that The St. Paul will benefit from the combined financial resources, management and personnel of the two companies and will be better able to capitalize on opportunities in the insurance industry. In addition, management believes that the Proposed Merger will permit The St. Paul to derive significant advantages from the more efficient utilization of the assets, management and personnel of two companies. These significant opportunities do not come without risks. In particular, it will be a significant challenge to integrate the businesses of The St. Paul and Travelers in an efficient and effective manner. Furthermore, since the risks and uncertainties facing each of The St. Paul and Travelers differ, the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of the combined company may be affected by risks and uncertainties different from those currently effecting each of The St. Paul and Travelers on a stand alone basis. We currently expect the Proposed Merger to close in the second quarter of 2004. 36 CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW OF THE ST. PAULS RESULTS The following table summarizes our results for each of the last three years. Years Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 (In millions, except per share data) Pretax income (loss): Property liability insurance $ 889 $ 244 $ (1,400 ) Asset management 187 162 142 Parent company and other operations (240 ) (230 ) (173 ) Pretax income (loss) from continuing operations 836 176 (1,431 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 137 (73 ) (422 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change 699 249 (1,009 ) Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes (21 ) (6 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 678 243 (1,009 ) Discontinued operations, net of taxes (17 ) (25 ) (79 ) Net income (loss) $ 661 $ 218 $ (1,088 ) Net income (loss) per share (diluted) $ 2.72 $ 0.92 $ (5.22 ) Our pretax income from continuing operations of $836 million in 2003 was significantly higher than the 2002 total of $176 million, due to strong improvement in results produced by our ongoing property liability underwriting segments. Our 2003 result included a total of $646 million in pretax loss provisions to strengthen prior year loss reserves, of which $350 million was recorded in our runoff Health Care operation and $260 million was recorded in our other runoff operations. Our majority owned asset management subsidiary, Nuveen Investments, Inc., achieved its ninth consecutive year of record results in 2003, driven by a significant increase in assets under management. In 2002, our pretax results included a $472 million loss provision, net of reinsurance, related to a settlement agreement we entered into with respect to the Western MacArthur asbestos litigation (described in more detail later in this discussion). Our pretax loss of $1.43 billion in 2001 was dominated by $941 million of pretax losses resulting from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack and pretax provisions totaling $735 million to strengthen prior year loss reserves in our Health Care business center. The 2003 and 2002 pretax losses in the Parent company and other operations category (which primarily consists of management, administrative and debt service expenses at the holding company level) were significantly higher than comparable loss in 2001 primarily due to an increase in distributions related to preferred securities issued in the fourth quarter of 2001. Our effective tax rate on pretax earnings was 16% in 2003, primarily reflecting the benefit of investment income from tax exempt fixed income securities in our property liability investment operations segment. In 2002, our income tax benefit of $73 million on pretax income of $176 million included $124 million of tax benefits associated with net realized investment losses. That $124 million reflected a $207 million benefit related to the sale of certain of our international operations and all other net realized gains and losses, and $83 million of tax expense related to the transfer of our ongoing reinsurance operations (discussed in more detail later in this discussion). In 2002, we substantially completed the refocusing of our international property liability underwriting operations. As part of that effort, we sold certain of those operations in the fourth quarter of 2002, resulting in a net after tax realized gain of $132 million that was predominantly comprised of the aforementioned tax benefits. The pretax impact on our results in 2002 from those sales was nominal, as significant operating losses had previously been reflected in our reported results for these operations prior to their divestiture. 37 As a result of implementing the provisions of a new accounting pronouncement in 2002 (discussed in more detail later in this discussion), we did not record any goodwill amortization expense in 2003 or 2002. In 2001, expenses related to goodwill totaled $114 million, which included $73 million of goodwill write downs related to businesses we decided to exit. Amortization expense related to other intangible assets totaled $31 million in 2003, compared with $18 million in 2002 and $2 million in 2001. CONSOLIDATED REVENUES The following table summarizes the sources of our consolidated revenues from continuing operations for the last three years. Years Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 (In millions) Revenues: Property liability insurance premiums earned $ 7,039 $ 7,502 $ 7,409 Net investment income 1,120 1,169 1,217 Asset management 453 398 375 Realized investment gains (losses) 73 (165 ) (94 ) Other 169 126 125 Total revenues $ 8,854 $ 9,030 $ 9,032 2003 vs. 2002 The 6% decline in insurance premiums earned in 2003 was centered in our runoff Other segment, reflecting the impact of our decision to withdraw from lines of business included in that segment. In our ongoing property liability underwriting segments, earned premiums of $6.71 billion were 22% higher than comparable 2002 earned premiums of $5.52 billion, due to a combination of new business, higher business retention levels and price increases. The $49 million decline in net investment income in 2003 was primarily due to a decline in investment yields on new investments, and a reduced amount of invested assets during 2003 resulting from the first quarter payment of $747 million related to the Western MacArthur asbestos litigation settlement agreement. Asset management revenues grew 14% over 2002, driven by a significant increase in investment advisory fees resulting from a $15.6 billion increase in assets under management. Realized investment gains in 2003 were driven by sales of certain venture capital and equity holdings. The increase in Other revenues in 2003 over 2002 was largely due to foreign currency exchange gains. 2002 vs. 2001 Earned premiums in 2002 grew 1% over 2001, as the positive impacts of significant price increases in 2001 and 2002 and new business in many of our ongoing operations were largely offset by our withdrawal from several lines of business and the transfer of our ongoing reinsurance operations to Platinum. Earned premiums of $5.52 billion generated by our two ongoing property liability underwriting segments in 2002 grew 24% over comparable 2001 earned premiums of $4.44 billion, whereas earned premiums produced by our runoff segment in 2002 declined 33% compared with 2001. Net investment income declined 4% from 2001, primarily due to reduced yields on new investments. Realized investment losses in 2002 were concentrated in our venture capital and equity portfolios and included losses originating from sales of investments, as well as impairment write downs. The majority of our Other revenues consisted of risk management consulting fees and claim servicing fees in our insurance underwriting operations and foreign exchange gains and losses. REVISIONS TO BUSINESS SEGMENT REPORTING STRUCTURE In the first quarter of 2003, we revised our property liability insurance business segment reporting structure to reflect the manner in which those businesses are managed. Our property liability underwriting operations consist of two segments constituting our ongoing operations (Specialty Commercial and 38 Commercial Lines), and one segment comprising our runoff operations (Other). The composition of those respective segments is described in greater detail in the analysis of their results later in this discussion. The following is a summary of changes made to our segments in the first quarter of 2003. Our Surety & Construction operations, previously reported together as a separate specialty segment, are now separate components of our Specialty Commercial segment. Our ongoing International operations and our ongoing operations at Lloyds, previously reported together as a separate specialty segment, are now separate components of our Specialty Commercial segment. Our Health Care, Reinsurance and Other operations, each previously reported as a separate runoff business segment, have been combined into a single Other runoff segment and are under common management. Runoff means that we have ceased or plan to cease underwriting business as soon as possible. The results of our participation in voluntary insurance pools, as well as loss development on business underwritten prior to 1980 (prior to 1988 for business acquired in our merger with USF&G Corporation in 1998), previously included in our Commercial Lines segment, are now included in the Other segment. In addition to our participation in voluntary insurance pools, this prior year business included the majority of our environmental and asbestos liability exposures. The oversight of these exposures is the responsibility of the same management team responsible for oversight of the other components of the Other segment. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2003, our Specialty Programs business center, previously reported in our Specialty Commercial segment, was moved to our Commercial Lines segment to more accurately reflect the manner in which this business is underwritten and managed. See the Commercial Lines segment discussion below for a further description of the Specialty Programs business center. All data for 2002 and 2001 included in this report were restated to be consistent with the changes made to our segment reporting structure in the first and fourth quarters of 2003. In accordance with provisions of SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, since Surety & Construction, International & Lloyds, Health Care, and Reinsurance were reported as separate segments during 2002 and are considered to be of continuing significance in analyzing the results of our operations, we continue to separately present and discuss (as appropriate) in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements and in Managements Discussion and Analysis, information about those businesses in 2003 and the corresponding periods of 2002 and 2001. Our operations in runoff do not qualify as discontinued operations for accounting purposes. For the year ended December 31, 2003, these runoff operations collectively accounted for $327 million, or 5%, of our net earned premiums, and generated underwriting losses totaling $762 million (an amount that does not include investment income from the assets maintained to support these operations). For the year ended December 31, 2002, these runoff operations collectively accounted for $1.98 billion, or 26%, of our net earned premiums, and generated underwriting losses totaling $874 million, an amount that included a $585 million pretax loss provision related to the Western MacArthur asbestos litigation settlement agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2001, these runoff operations collectively accounted for $2.97 billion, or 40%, of our net earned premiums, and generated underwriting losses totaling $1.87 billion, an amount that included a $735 million pretax loss provision to strengthen prior year loss reserves in our Health Care operation and $662 million of pretax losses related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. Our consolidated net loss and loss adjustment expense reserves of $13.3 billion at December 31, 2003 and $14.8 billion at December 31, 2002 included approximately $5.6 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, of net reserves related to our runoff segment. The payment of claims from these reserves will negatively impact our investment income in future periods as the invested assets related to these reserves decline. 39 TRANSFER OF ONGOING REINSURANCE OPERATIONS TO PLATINUM UNDERWRITERS HOLDINGS, LTD. On November 1, 2002, we completed the transfer of our continuing reinsurance business (previously operating under the name St. Paul Re) and certain related assets, including renewal rights, to Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd. (Platinum), a Bermuda company formed in 2002 that underwrites property and casualty reinsurance on a worldwide basis. As part of this transaction, we contributed $122 million of cash to Platinum and transferred $349 million in assets relating to the insurance reserves that we also transferred. In exchange, we acquired six million common shares, representing a 14% equity ownership interest in Platinum, and a ten year option to buy up to six million additional common shares at an exercise price of $27 per share, which represents 120% of the initial public offering price of Platinums shares. In conjunction with the transfer of our continuing reinsurance business to Platinum, we entered into various agreements with Platinum and its subsidiaries, including quota share reinsurance agreements by which Platinum reinsured substantially all of the reinsurance contracts entered into by St. Paul Re on or after January 1, 2002. This transfer (based on September 30, 2002 balances) included $125 million of unearned premium reserves (net of ceding commissions), $200 million of existing loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and $24 million of other reinsurance related liabilities. The transfer of unearned premium reserves to Platinum was accounted for as prospective reinsurance, while the transfer of existing loss and loss adjustment expense reserves was accounted for as retroactive reinsurance. As noted above, the transfer of reserves to Platinum at the inception of the quota share reinsurance agreements was based on the September 30, 2002 balances. In March 2003, we transferred to Platinum $137 million of additional insurance reserves, consisting of $72 million in unearned premiums (net of ceding commissions) and $65 million in existing reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses. We also transferred cash and other assets having a value equal to the additional insurance reserves transferred. This transfer of additional assets and liabilities reflected business activity between September 30, 2002 and the November 2, 2002 inception date of the quota share reinsurance agreements, and our estimate of amounts due under the adjustment provisions of the quota share reinsurance agreements. Our insurance reserves at December 31, 2002 included our estimate, at that time, of amounts due to Platinum under the quota share reinsurance agreements, which totaled $54 million. The $83 million increase in our estimate of amounts due to Platinum under the quota share reinsurance agreements resulted in a pretax underwriting loss of $6 million in the first quarter of 2003. During the second quarter of 2003, we reached final agreement with Platinum regarding the adjustment provisions of the quota share reinsurance agreements and no further adjustments to the transferred assets and liabilities will occur. For business underwritten in the United States and the United Kingdom, until October 31, 2003 Platinum had the right to underwrite specified reinsurance business on our behalf in cases where Platinum was unable to underwrite that business because it had yet to obtain necessary regulatory licenses or approval to do so, or Platinum had not yet been approved as a reinsurer by the ceding company. We entered into this agreement solely as a means to accommodate Platinum through a transition period. Any business written by Platinum on our policy forms during this transition period was fully ceded to Platinum under the quota share reinsurance agreements. The transaction resulted in a pretax gain of $29 million and an after tax loss of $54 million in the year ended December 31, 2002. The after tax loss was driven by the write off of approximately $73 million in deferred tax assets associated with previously incurred losses related to St. Paul Res United Kingdom based operations, as well as approximately $10 million in taxes associated with the pretax gain. Our investment in Platinum is included in Other investments. The estimated income from our 14% proportionate equity ownership in Platinum is included in our statement of operations as a component of 40 Net investment income. Our option to purchase additional Platinum shares is carried at market value ($65 million and $61 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively), with changes in its fair value recorded as other realized gains or losses in our statement of operations. In 2003 and 2002, we recorded net pretax realized gains of $4 million and $7 million, respectively, related to this option. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES In December 2003, we completed the sale of Camperdown UK Limited, one of our Lloyds corporate names and the vehicle for our participation on the 2003 and prior years of account, to Foltus Investments Limited. We recognized a $2 million pretax gain on this transaction. At Lloyds, we underwrite business through a single syndicate (Syndicate 5000) for which we provide 100% of the capital. In 2003, Fire and Marine entered into a 100% quota share reinsurance agreement directly with Syndicate 5000 that in effect transferred Syndicate 5000s underwriting results for the 2003 year of account to Fire and Marine. In order to continue our ongoing operations at Lloyds, we activated two corporate names that will be used for 2004 and future years of account to underwrite Syndicate 5000 business. In November 2003, The St. Paul and Travelers Property Casualty Corp. announced the signing of a definitive merger agreement. See Item 1 in this report for further discussion of the Proposed Merger. In October 2003, we sold our subsidiary, Octagon Risk Services, Inc., a claim management and consulting services company, for proceeds of approximately $30 million. We recorded a pretax gain of $5 million on the sale. In the third quarter of 2003, we sold our subsidiary Botswana Insurance Company Ltd. for total proceeds of $11 million, and recorded a pretax loss of less than $1 million. In May 2003, we purchased the right to seek renewal of several lines of insurance business previously underwritten by Kemper Insurance Companies. The initial payment for this right was recorded as an intangible asset (characterized as renewal rights) and is being amortized on an accelerated basis over four years. The portfolio of business involved in this transaction included the following lines: technology, small commercial, middle market commercial, inland and ocean marine, and architects and engineers professional liability. We did not assume any past liabilities with this purchase; however, we may be obligated to make an additional payment in June 2004 based on the amount of premium volume we ultimately renew during the twelve month period subsequent to this purchase. We believe it is unlikely that any additional payment would exceed $30 million. At December 31, 2003, we had accrued $10 million toward this additional obligation, recorded in Other liabilities. Our consolidated gross written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2003 included approximately $280 million attributable to business underwritten as a result of this purchase of renewal rights, the majority of which were included in our Commercial Lines segment. In December 2002, we acquired the right to seek to renew the Professional and Financial Risk Practice business previously underwritten by Royal & SunAlliance in the United States, without assuming past liabilities. That business generated approximately $80 million in written premiums in 2003. The nominal cost of this acquisition was accounted for as an intangible asset and is being amortized over four years. In December 2002, we sold our insurance operations in Spain and Argentina and all of our operations in Mexico except our surety business. Proceeds from these sales totaled $29 million, and we recorded a pretax gain of $4 million related to the sales. In March 2002, we completed our acquisition of London Guarantee Insurance Company (London Guarantee, now operating under the name St. Paul Guarantee), a specialty property liability insurance company focused on providing surety products and management liability, bond, and professional indemnity products. The total cost of the acquisition was approximately $80 million, of which approximately $18 41 million represented goodwill and $37 million represented other intangible assets. The purchase price was funded through internally generated funds. In December 2001, we purchased the right to seek to renew surety bond business previously underwritten by Firemans Fund Insurance Company (Firemans Fund), without assuming past liabilities. We paid Firemans Fund $10 million in consideration, which we recorded as an intangible asset and which we expect to amortize over nine years. Based on the volume of business renewed during 2002, we made a modest additional payment to Firemans Fund in the first quarter of 2003. That amount was also recorded as an intangible asset and is being amortized on an accelerated basis over the remaining life of the intangible asset. In January 2001, we acquired the right to seek to renew a book of municipality insurance business from Penco, a program administrator for Willis North America Inc., for a total consideration of $3.5 million. The cost was recorded as an intangible asset and is being amortized over five years. In addition, Nuveen Investments made strategic acquisitions in both 2002 and 2001, which are discussed in greater detail in the Asset Management section of this discussion. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS LIFE INSURANCE In September 2001, we completed the sale of our life insurance company, Fidelity and Guaranty Life Insurance Company and its subsidiary, Thomas Jefferson Life (together, F&G Life) to Old Mutual plc (Old Mutual), for $335 million in cash and $300 million in ordinary shares of Old Mutual. In June 2002, we sold all of the Old Mutual shares we were holding for a total net consideration of $287 million, resulting in a pretax realized loss of $13 million that was recorded as a component of discontinued operations on our statement of operations in 2002. At the time of the sale of the Old Mutual shares, there was a derivative collar agreement in place that would have determined any possible adjustment to the original F&G Life sale price one year after the closing date. The collar was recorded on our balance sheet as an asset and had a fair value of $12 million when we sold our Old Mutual shares. We agreed to terminate the collar at no value as part of the sale of our Old Mutual shares. That $12 million pretax loss was also included in discontinued operations on our statement of operations in 2002. At the time of the sale of F&G Life in 2001, we recorded a net after tax loss of $74 million on the sale proceeds. That loss was combined with F&G Lifes results of operations prior to sale for an after tax loss of $55 million and was included in the reported loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2001. STANDARD PERSONAL INSURANCE In 1999, we sold our standard personal insurance operations to Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company (Metropolitan). Metropolitan purchased Economy Fire & Casualty Company and subsidiaries (Economy), and the rights and interests in those non Economy policies constituting the remainder of our standard personal insurance operations. Those rights and interests were transferred to Metropolitan by way of a reinsurance and facility agreement. We guaranteed the adequacy of Economys loss and loss expense reserves, and we remain liable for claims on non Economy policies that result from losses occurring prior to the September 30, 1999 closing date. Under the reserve related agreements, we agreed to pay for any deficiencies in those reserves and would share in any redundancies that developed by September 30, 2002. Any losses incurred by us under these agreements were reflected in discontinued operations in the period during which they were incurred. At December 31, 2002, our analysis indicated that we owed Metropolitan $13 million related to the reserve agreements, which was paid in April 2003. We have no other contingent liabilities related to this sale. 42 NONSTANDARD AUTO INSURANCE In 1999, Prudential purchased our nonstandard auto insurance business marketed under the Victoria Financial and Titan Auto brands for $175 million in cash (net of a $25 million dividend paid by these operations to our property liability insurance operations prior to closing). We recorded an estimated after tax loss of $83 million on the sale, representing the estimated excess of carrying value of these entities at closing date over proceeds to be received from the sale, plus estimated income through the disposal date. This excess primarily consisted of goodwill. We recorded an after tax loss on disposal of $9 million in 2000, primarily representing additional losses incurred through the disposal date in May, and an additional after tax loss on disposal of $5 million in 2001, primarily representing tax adjustments made to the sale transaction. MINET In 1997, we sold our insurance brokerage operation, Minet Holdings plc (Minet) to Aon Corporation. We recorded expenses in discontinued operations in each of the last three years related to the Minet sale. In 2003, we recorded expense primarily related to an adjustment to the tax provision on the sale, whereas the expenses recorded in 2002 and 2001 primarily represented additional funds due Aon pursuant to provisions of the sale agreement. Our operations in runoff do not qualify as discontinued operations for accounting purposes. The following table presents the components of discontinued operations reported in our consolidated statement of operations for each of the last three years. Years Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 (In millions) F&G Life: Operating income, net of taxes $ $ $ 19 Loss on disposal, net of taxes (12 ) (74 ) Total F&G Life (12 ) (55 ) Standard Personal Insurance: Operating income, net of taxes Loss on disposal, net of taxes (7 ) (7 ) (13 ) Total Standard Personal Insurance (7 ) (7 ) (13 ) Nonstandard Auto Insurance: Operating income, net of taxes Loss on disposal, net of taxes (3 ) (5 ) Total Nonstandard Auto Insurance (3 ) (5 ) Minet Holdings plc: Operating income, net of taxes Loss on disposal, net of taxes (10 ) (3 ) (6 ) Total Minet Holdings plc (10 ) (3 ) (6 ) Total discontinued operations (17 ) $ (25 ) $ (79 ) ASBESTOS SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT On June 3, 2002, we announced that we and certain of our subsidiaries had entered into an agreement settling all existing and future claims arising from any insuring relationship of United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company (USF&G), St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company and their affiliates and subsidiaries, including us (collectively, the USF&G Parties) with any of MacArthur Company, Western MacArthur Company (Western MacArthur), and Western Asbestos Company (Western Asbestos) (together, the MacArthur Companies). 43 Pursuant to the provisions of the settlement agreement, on November 22, 2002, the MacArthur Companies filed voluntary petitions under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to permit the channeling of all current and future asbestos related claims solely to a trust to be established pursuant to Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code. Consummation of most elements of the settlement agreement was contingent upon bankruptcy court approval of the settlement agreement as part of a broader plan for the reorganization of the MacArthur Companies (the Plan). In January 2004, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California issued an order approving the settlement agreement with the MacArthur Companies and confirming the MacArthur Companies proposed plan of reorganization. We are awaiting final confirmation of the Bankruptcy Court order. The plan of reorganization includes an injunction in favor of The St. Paul against any direct or indirect liability for asbestos related claims against the MacArthur Companies. Under the injunction, all current and future asbestos related claims of the MacArthur Companies will be channeled to, and paid solely from, the trust established by the plan. The MacArthur Companies will release the USF&G Parties from any and all asbestos related claims for personal injury, and all other claims in excess of $1 million in the aggregate, that may be asserted relating to or arising from, directly or indirectly, any alleged coverage provided by any of the USF&G Parties to any of the MacArthur Companies, including any claim for extra contractual relief. The St. Paul has completed its funding obligations under the 2002 settlement agreement, consisting of payments of $235 million during the second quarter of 2002, and $747 million on January 16, 2003 (including interest). Following final confirmation of the Bankruptcy Court ruling, the escrowed funds will be released to the trust established by the plan for the payment of the MacArthur Companies asbestos related claims. The settlement agreement also provided for the USF&G Parties to pay $13 million (which was paid in the second quarter of 2002) and to advance certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the settlement, bankruptcy proceedings, finalization of the Plan and efforts to achieve approval of the Plan, subject to a right of reimbursement in certain circumstances of amounts advanced. Up to $175 million of the initial $235 million payment will be paid to counsel for the MacArthur Companies, and persons holding judgments against the MacArthur Companies as of June 3, 2002 and their counsel, and the USF&G Parties will be released from claims by such holders to the extent of $110 million paid to such holders. At least $60 million from the initial payment and the $747 million paid in 2003 would be returned to us if final confirmation of the Bankruptcy Court ruling does not occur. At December 31, 2003, those payments of $807 million were recorded in both Other Assets and Other Liabilities. The $312 million after tax impact to our net income in 2002 was calculated as follows. Year Ended Dec. 31, 2002 (In millions) Total cost of settlement $ 995 Less: Utilization of IBNR loss reserves (153 ) Net reinsurance recoverables (370 ) Net pretax loss 472 Tax benefit 160 Net after tax loss $ 312 44 The following table represents a rollforward of asbestos reserve activity in 2002 related to the Western MacArthur matter. (In millions) Net reserve balance related to Western MacArthur at Dec. 31, 2001 $ 6 Announced cost of settlement: Utilization of existing asbestos IBNR reserves $ 153 Gross incurred impact of settlement during second quarter of 2002 835 Subtotal 988 Less: originally estimated net reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses (250 ) Adjustments subsequent to announcement: Change in estimate of loss adjustment expenses 7 Change in estimate of net reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses (120 ) Subtotal (113 ) Payments, net of $75 million of estimated reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (189 ) Net reserve balance related to Western MacArthur at Dec. 31, 2002 $ 442 Our gross asbestos reserves at December 31, 2002 included $740 million of reserves related to Western MacArthur ($442 million of net reserves after consideration of $295 million of estimated net reinsurance recoverables and $3 million of bankruptcy fees recoverable from others). On January 16, 2003, pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, we paid the remaining $740 million settlement amount, plus interest, to the bankruptcy trustee in respect of this matter. As a result, at December 31, 2003 our gross asbestos reserves included no amount related to Western MacArthur. (See further discussion of asbestos reserves in the Environmental and Asbestos Claims section of this discussion). POSSIBLE ASBESTOS LEGISLATION From time to time asbestos reform bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress. Some of these proposed laws seek to reduce or eliminate current personal injury litigation by replacing it with a statutory compensation program funded by contributions from a variety of sources which may include companies that formerly manufactured, distributed or sold asbestos products and insurers that underwrote certain asbestos risks. Many of these reform efforts would not cover asbestos property damage claims and other categories of asbestos exposure including future personal injury claims if the compensation fund ultimately proves insufficient. The prospects for the passage of an asbestos reform bill remain uncertain and the effect of any such future asbestos legislative reform on us would depend upon a variety of factors including the total size of any compensation fund, the portions allocated to various commercial groups and the formula for allocating contributions among insurers. If any asbestos litigation reform is enacted in the future, our contribution allocation could be significantly larger than our current asbestos reserve. 45 SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 TERRORIST ATTACK In 2001, we recorded estimated net pretax losses totaling $941 million related to the terrorist attack that occurred on September 11, 2001, consisting of the following components. Year Ended Dec. 31, 2001 (In millions) Gross pretax loss and loss adjustment expenses 2,299 Reinsurance recoverables (1,231 ) Provision for uncollectible reinsurance 47 Additional and reinstatement premiums (83 ) Reduction in reinsurance contingent commission expense (91 ) Total estimated pretax operating loss $ 941 Our estimate of losses was based on a variety of actuarial techniques, coverage interpretation and claims estimation methodologies, and include an estimate of losses incurred but not reported, as well as estimated costs related to the settlement of claims. Our estimate of losses was originally based on our belief that property liability insurance losses from the terrorist attack will total between $30 billion and $35 billion for the insurance industry. In 2003 and 2002, our estimate of ultimate losses was supplemented by our ongoing analysis of both paid and reported claims related to the attack. Our estimate of losses remains subject to significant uncertainties and may change over time as additional information becomes available. We regularly evaluate the adequacy of our estimated net losses related to the terrorist attack, weighing all factors that may impact the total net losses we will ultimately incur. Based on the results of those regular evaluations, we changed our estimate of losses among our property liability segments in 2003 and 2002. In addition, in 2003 we recorded a reduction of $46 million in estimated losses related to the attack. In 2002, we recorded an additional loss provision of $20 million and a $33 million reduction in our estimated provision for uncollectible reinsurance related to the attack. In 2002, we and other insurers obtained a summary judgment ruling that the World Trade Center property loss was a single occurrence. Certain insureds, including the World Trade Centers leaseholder, appealed that ruling, asking the court to determine that the property loss constituted two separate occurrences rather than one. In September 2003, the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that under terms of the policy form we used to underwrite property coverage for the World Trade Center, the terrorist attack constituted one occurrence. Additionally, through separate litigation, the aviation losses could be deemed four separate events rather than three, for purposes of insurance and reinsurance coverage. Even if the courts ultimately rule against us regarding the number of occurrences or events, we believe the additional amount of estimated after tax losses, net of reinsurance, that we would record would not be material to our results of operations. 46 The (benefits) detriments on our business segments related to the terrorist attack for each year in the three year period ended December 31, 2003 are shown in the following table. Years Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 (In millions) Specialty Commercial: Specialty $ (8 ) $ 8 51 Surety & Construction (1 ) 2 International & Lloyds (3 ) (16 ) 90 Total Specialty Commercial (12 ) (8 ) 143 Commercial Lines (24 ) (30 ) 136 Other: Health Care (1 ) 5 Reinsurance (8 ) 23 556 Other Runoff (1 ) 2 101 Total Other (10 ) 25 662 Total expense (benefit) $ (46 ) $ (13 ) $ 941 Through December 31, 2003, we paid a total of $512 million in net losses related to the terrorist attack since it occurred, including $205 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS Refer to Item 3 of this report for a discussion of the status of certain litigation matters involving The St. Paul. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS* December 31, 2003 Payments due by period Total Less than one year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than five years (In millions) Long term debt obligations $ 3,428 $ 55 $ 488 $ 1,465 $ 1,420 Operating lease obligations 507 113 165 127 102 Venture capital investment funding obligations 792 208 372 185 27 Total $ 4,727 $ 376 $ 1,025 $ 1,777 $ 1,549 * For more information regarding our contractual obligations, see Notes 10 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. We did not include claims to be paid out of our insurance reserves in the foregoing table, because of the significant uncertainty involved in trying to project payments related to those reserves into the future. 47 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into certain off balance sheet arrangements in the course of conducting our insurance operations, and from the sale of businesses. These arrangements are typically related to transactions involving guarantees, derivative instruments, or variable interest entities. We have disclosed the effects of these arrangements in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements, specifically Notes 7, 10, 12 and 16 included in Item 8 of this report. Management does not believe that these arrangements have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Overview The St. Paul Companies, Inc. is a holding company with subsidiaries operating in the property liability insurance industry and the asset management industry. We combine our financial statements with those of our subsidiaries and present them on a consolidated basis in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Our significant accounting policies are set forth in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. The following is a summary of the critical accounting policies related to accounting estimates that 1) require us to make assumptions about highly uncertain matters and 2) could materially impact our consolidated financial statements if we made different assumptions. After the Proposed Merger, management of the combined company will make decisions regarding the integration of claims handling practices, actuarial practices and other operational procedures. These decisions may impact managements estimate of insurance loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. Loss Reserves The most significant estimates relate to our reserves for property liability insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses (LAE). We establish reserves for the estimated total unpaid cost of losses and LAE, which cover events that have already occurred. These reserves reflect our estimates of the total cost of claims that were reported to us, but not yet paid (case reserves), and the cost of claims incurred but not yet reported to us (IBNR reserves). For reported losses, we establish case reserves within the parameters of coverage provided in the insurance policy, surety bond or reinsurance agreement. For IBNR losses, we estimate reserves taking into account various statistical and actuarial projection techniques as well as other influencing factors. We continually review our reserves, using a variety of statistical and actuarial techniques to analyze current claim costs, frequency and severity data, and prevailing economic, social and legal factors. We also take into consideration other variables such as past loss experience, changes in legislative conditions, changes in judicial interpretation of legal liability and policy coverages, changes in claims handling practices and inflation. We consider not only monetary increases in the cost of what we insure, but also changes in societal factors that influence jury verdicts and case law, our approach to claim resolution, and, in turn, claim costs. For certain catastrophic events, there is considerable uncertainty underlying the assumptions and associated estimated reserves for losses and LAE. Reserves are reviewed regularly and, as experience develops and additional information becomes known, including revised industry estimates of the magnitude of a catastrophe, the reserves are adjusted as we deem necessary. Because many of the coverages we offer involve claims that may not ultimately be settled for many years after they are incurred, subjective judgments as to our ultimate exposure to losses are an integral and necessary component of our loss reserving process. We analyze our reserves by considering a range of estimates bounded by a high and low point, and record our best estimate within that range. We adjust reserves established in prior years as loss experience develops and new information becomes available. 48 Adjustments to previously estimated reserves, both positive and negative, are reflected in our financial results in the periods in which they are made, and are referred to as prior period development. Because of the high level of uncertainty involved in these estimates, revisions to our estimated reserves could have a material impact on our results of operations in the period recognized, and ultimate actual payments for claims and LAE could turn out to be significantly different from our estimates. Environmental and Asbestos Reserves. Reserves for environmental and asbestos exposures cannot be estimated solely with the traditional loss reserving techniques described above, which rely on historical accident year development factors and take into consideration the previously mentioned variables. Environmental and asbestos reserves are more difficult to estimate than our other loss reserves because of legal issues, societal factors and difficulty in determining the parties who may ultimately be held liable. Therefore, in addition to taking into consideration the traditional variables that are utilized to arrive at our other loss reserve amounts, we also look at the length of time necessary to clean up polluted sites, controversies surrounding the identity of the responsible party, the degree of remediation deemed to be necessary, the estimated time period for litigation expenses, judicial expansions of coverage, medical complications arising with asbestos claimants advanced age, case law, and the history of prior claim development. We also consider the impact of changes in the legal environment, including our experience in the Western MacArthur matter, in establishing our reserves for other asbestos and environmental cases. Generally, case reserves and loss adjustment expense reserves are established where sufficient information has been obtained to indicate coverage under a specific insurance policy. We also consider end of period reserves in relation to paid losses in a period. Furthermore, IBNR reserves are established to cover additional estimated exposures related to policyholders that havent as yet asserted any claims as well as development on reserves assumed from other entities. These reserves are continually reviewed and updated as additional information is acquired. Our historical methodology (through first quarter 2002) for reviewing the adequacy of environmental and asbestos reserves utilized a survival ratio metric, which considered ending reserves in relation to calendar year paid losses. When the environmental reserve analyses were completed in the second quarter of 2002, we supplemented our survival ratio diagnostics with the detailed additional analyses referred to above, and concluded that our environmental reserves were redundant by approximately $150 million. Based on our additional analyses, we released approximately $150 million of environmental reserves in the second quarter of 2002. Had we continued to rely solely on our analysis of survival ratio, we would have recorded no adjustment to our environmental reserves through the six months ended June 30, 2002. In the second quarter of 2002, we also supplemented our survival ratio analysis of asbestos reserves with a detailed claims analysis. We determined that, excluding the impact of the Western MacArthur settlement, our asbestos reserves were adequate; however, including that impact, we determined that our asbestos reserves were inadequate. As a result, gross and net asbestos reserves were increased $150 million. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we updated our detailed actuarial analysis for both asbestos and environmental reserves pertaining to our exposure from direct policyholders and utilized these analyses in determining the adequacy of our reserve provision for the remaining unreported losses. For non workers compensation asbestos claims, we supplemented this detailed analysis with an additional analysis to determine an estimate of reserves specifically for policyholders who have not as yet tendered their first asbestos claim. As a result of these studies, we increased net asbestos reserves by $77 million ($44 million in our ongoing operations and $33 million in our runoff operations) and net environmental reserves by $14 million (all in our ongoing operations). In addition, reviews of assumed and non domestic exposures caused us to increase net asbestos reserves by $13 million and reduce net environmental reserves by $1 million (all of which was recorded in our runoff operations). Health Care Reserves. During 2002, we concluded that the impact of settling claims in a runoff environment in our Health Care operation was causing abnormal effects on our average paid claims, 49 average outstanding claims, and the amount of average case reserves established for new claims all of which are traditional statistics used by our actuaries to develop indicated ranges of expected loss. Taking these changing statistics into account, we developed varying interpretations of our data, which implied added uncertainty in our evaluation of these reserves. In the fourth quarter of 2002, we established specific tools and indicators to more explicitly monitor and validate our key assumptions supporting our Health Care reserve conclusions since our traditional statistics and reserving methods needed to be supplemented in order to provide a more meaningful analysis. The tools that were developed tracked the three primary indicators which influenced our expectations and included: a) newly reported claims, b) reserve development on known claims and c) the redundancy ratio, comparing the cost of resolving claims to the reserve established for that individual claim. Various actuarial techniques can be used to estimate Health Care reserves. While certain actuarial techniques could suggest a need for materially different levels of reserves, management believes the techniques it utilizes are the most appropriate under the circumstances. For a detailed discussion about loss development related to our Health Care reserves in 2003, refer to the Health Care section of this discussion. Reinsurance Our reported written premiums, earned premiums and losses and LAE reflect the net effects of assumed and ceded reinsurance. Premiums are recorded at the inception of each policy, based on information received from ceding companies and their brokers. For excess of loss contracts, the amount of premium is usually contractually documented at inception, and no management judgment is necessary in accounting for this. Premiums are earned on a pro rata basis over the coverage period. For proportional treaties, the amount of premium is normally estimated at inception by the ceding company. We account for such premium using the initial estimates, and adjust them once a sufficient period for actual premium reporting has elapsed. Reinstatement and additional premiums are written at the time a loss event occurs where coverage limits for the remaining life of the contract are reinstated under pre defined contract terms. Reinstatement premiums are the premiums charged for the restoration of the reinsurance limit of a catastrophe contract to its full amount after payment by the reinsurer of losses as a result of an occurrence. These premiums relate to the future coverage obtained during the remainder of the initial policy term, and are earned over the remaining policy term. Additional premiums are premiums charged after coverage has expired that are related to experience during the policy term, which are earned immediately. Reinsurance accounting is followed for assumed and ceded transactions when risk transfer requirements have been met. These requirements involve significant assumptions being made relating to the amount and timing of expected cash flows, as well as the interpretation of underlying contract terms. Reinsurance contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are considered financing transactions and are required to be accounted for as deposits. We estimate and record an allowance for reinsurance amounts that may not be collectible, due to credit issues, disputes over coverage, or other considerations. Investments We continually monitor the difference between our cost and the estimated fair value of investments, which involves uncertainty as to whether declines in value are temporary in nature. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in our common shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the carrying value of the investment and record a realized loss on our statement of operations. Our assessment of a decline in value includes our current judgment as to the financial position and future prospects of the entity that issued the investment security. If that judgment changes in the future, we may ultimately record a realized loss after having originally concluded that the decline in value was temporary. The following 50 table summarizes the total pretax gross unrealized loss recorded in our common shareholders equity at December 31, 2003 and 2002, by invested asset class. December 31 2003 2002 (In millions) Fixed income (including securities on loan): $ 51 $ 52 Equities 4 37 Venture capital 74 119 Total unrealized loss $ 129 $ 208 At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the carrying value of our consolidated invested asset portfolio included $0.95 billion and $1.03 billion of net pretax unrealized appreciation, respectively. Included in those net amounts were gross pretax unrealized losses of $129 million and $208 million, respectively. The following tables summarize, for all securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2003 and 2002, the aggregate fair value and gross unrealized loss by length of time those securities have been continuously in an unrealized loss position. The cost of these investments represented approximately 16% of our investment portfolio (at cost) at December 31, 2003. The majority of unrealized losses related to fixed income securities are issuer specific rather than interest rate related. December 31, 2003 Up to 12 months Greater than 12 months Total Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss (In millions) Fixed income: U.S. Government $ 348 $ 5 $ 8 $ $ 356 $ 5 State and political subdivisions 114 3 17 131 3 Foreign governments 287 2 287 2 Corporate securities 1,112 23 57 2 1,169 25 Asset backed securities 54 1 73 8 127 9 Mortgage backed securities 412 7 1 413 7 Total fixed income 2,327 41 156 10 2,483 51 Equities 22 4 3 25 4 Venture capital 53 29 54 45 107 74 Total 2,402 $ 74 $ 213 $ 55 $ 2,615 $ 129 51 December 31, 2002 Up to 12 months Greater than 12 months Total Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss (In millions) Fixed income: U.S. Government $ 236 $ 2 $ 1 $ $ 237 $ 2 State and political subdivisions 107 3 10 117 3 Foreign governments 126 2 6 132 2 Corporate securities 323 16 134 12 457 28 Asset backed securities 59 13 44 4 103 17 Mortgage backed securities 20 3 23 Total fixed income 871 36 198 16 1,069 52 Equities 224 35 4 2 228 37 Venture capital 99 74 44 45 143 119 Total $ 1,194 $ 145 $ 246 $ 63 $ 1,440 $ 208 The following two tables provide additional information regarding our venture capital investment holdings in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The tables indicate the period of time the securities had been in an unrealized loss position and the amount of unrealized loss as a percentage of our investment in the holding. December 31, 2003 0 20% Loss &gt;20% &lt;50% Loss 50% or Greater Loss Total Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss (In millions) 0 6 months $ 13 $ 1 $ 19 $ 11 $ 6 $ 12 $ 38 $ 24 7 12 months 9 5 3 1 2 15 5 13 24 months 9 1 20 12 14 25 43 38 Greater than 24 months 11 7 11 7 Total $ 31 $ 2 $ 55 $ 33 $ 21 $ 39 $ 107 $ 74 December 31, 2002 0 20% Loss &gt;20% &lt;50% Loss 50% or Greater Loss Total Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss (In millions) 0 6 months $ 11 $ 1 $ 39 $ 26 $ 10 $ 22 $ 60 $ 49 7 12 months 13 1 17 8 9 16 39 25 13 24 months 13 1 10 7 16 34 39 42 Greater than 24 months 1 4 1 2 5 3 Total $ 38 $ 3 $ 70 $ 42 $ 35 $ 74 $ 143 $ 119 In our venture capital portfolio, the sale of a large portion of one of our investment holdings generated a pretax gain of $171 million in 2003, which was largely offset by impairment realized losses totaling $143 million related to 38 of our investment holdings. Fourteen of those holdings were impaired due to a merger or sale at a value less than our cost. Eleven holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by gross margins being less than expected, product pricing not meeting initial projections due to market conditions, and greater than expected manufacturing expenses). Six holdings 52 were written down because the entities progress was substantially less than planned and additional financing was required at values less than our cost. An additional six holdings were impaired due to cessation of operations of the entity. Finally, one holding was impaired because market demand for its product was less than expected. Realized losses in our venture capital portfolio in 2002 included $56 million of losses resulting from the sale of the majority of our partnership investment holdings, and impairment write downs in 25 of our holdings totaling $122 million. These holdings were impaired for the same general reasons noted above for the 2003 impairments: seven holdings were impaired because market demand for their products was less than expected; seven holdings were written down because the entities progress was less than planned and additional financing would be required; five holdings were impaired due to fundamental economic deterioration (as defined above); four holdings were impaired due to a merger or sale at less than our cost; and two holdings were impaired due to cessation of operations. At December 31, 2003, non investment grade securities comprised less than 2% of our consolidated fixed income investment portfolio, and nonrated securities comprised less than one half of one percent of that portfolio. Included in those categories at that date were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $59 million and a fair value of $56 million, resulting in a net pretax unrealized loss of $3 million. These securities represented less than 1% of the total amortized cost and fair value of the fixed income portfolio at December 31, 2003, and accounted for 6% of the total pretax unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio. Included in those categories at December 31, 2002 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $160 million and a fair value of $140 million, resulting in a net pretax unrealized loss of $20 million. These securities represented 1% of the total amortized cost and fair value of the fixed income portfolio at Dec. 31, 2002, and accounted for 38% of the total pretax unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio. The following table presents information regarding those fixed income investments, by remaining period to maturity date, that were in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2003. December 31, 2003 Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value (In millions) Remaining period to maturity date: One year or less $ 112 $ 111 Over one year through five years 473 469 Over five years through ten years 905 886 Over ten years 488 477 Asset/mortgage backed securities with various maturities 556 540 Total $ 2,534 $ 2,483 Our investment portfolio also includes non publicly traded securities, the vast majority of which are held in our venture capital and real estate portfolios. Our venture capital investments represent ownership interests in small to medium sized companies, which are carried at estimated fair value. Fair values are based on an estimate determined by an internal valuation committee for securities for which there is no public market. The internal valuation committee reviews such factors as recent financings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth, and other business and market sector fundamental statistics in estimating fair values of specific investments. For our real estate joint ventures, we use the equity method of accounting, meaning that we carry these investments at cost, adjusted for our share of earnings or losses, and reduced by cash distributions from the partnerships and valuation adjustments. Due to time constraints in obtaining financial results from the partnerships, the results of these operations are recorded 53 on a one month lag. If events occur during the lag period which are material to our consolidated results, the impact is included in current period results. The following discussion summarizes our process of reviewing our investments for possible impairment. Fixed Income and Securities on Loan On a monthly basis, these investments are reviewed by portfolio managers for impairment. In general, the managers focus their attention on those fixed income securities whose market value was less than 80% of their amortized cost for at least one month in the previous nine months. Factors considered in evaluating potential impairment include the following. the degree to which any appearance of impairment is attributable to an overall change in market conditions (e.g., interest rates) rather than changes in the individual factual circumstances and risk profile of the issuer; the degree to which an issuer is current or in arrears in making principal and interest payments on the debt securities in question; the issuers fixed charge ratio at the date of acquisition and date of evaluation; the issuers current financial condition and its ability to make future scheduled principal and interest payments on a timely basis; the independent auditors report on the issuers recent financial statements; buy/hold/sell recommendations of outside investment advisors and analysts; relevant rating history, analysis and guidance provided by rating agencies and analysts; and whether or not we have the ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery, enabling us to receive value equal to or greater than our cost. Equities On a monthly basis, these investments are reviewed by portfolio managers for impairment. In general, the managers focus their attention on those equity securities whose market value was less than 80% of their cost for six consecutive months. Factors considered in evaluating potential impairment include the following. whether the decline appears to be related to general market or industry conditions or is issuer specific; the relationship of market prices per share to book value per share at date of acquisition and date of evaluation; the price earnings ratio at the time of acquisition and date of evaluation; our ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery in the market value; the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events that may influence the issuers operations; the recent income or loss of the issuer; the independent auditors report on the issuers financial statements; the dividend policy of the issuer at date of acquisition and date of evaluation; any buy/hold/sell recommendations of investment advisors; rating agency announcements; and 54 price projections of investment analysts. Venture Capital Publicly traded. On a monthly basis, individual public investments are analyzed for impairment by portfolio managers as well as an internal valuation committee. In general, attention is focused on those marketable (public equity) securities whose market value has been less than cost for six consecutive months. Factors considered are the same as those enumerated above for our equity investments. Non publicly traded Our non publicly traded venture capital portfolio generally consists of investments in early stage venture capital companies, historically with a holding period of four to seven years. These investments have primarily been made in the health care, software and computer services, and networking and information technologies infrastructures industries. We typically are involved with venture capital companies early in their formation, as they are developing and determining the viability of, and market demand for, their product. We generally do not expect these venture capital companies to record revenues in the early stages of their development, which can often take three to four years, and do not generally expect them to become profitable for an even longer period of time. As such, our impairment analysis for these non publicly traded venture capital investments differs from that performed for both our equity investment portfolio and our publicly traded venture capital investments. With respect to our valuation of such non publicly traded venture capital investments, on a quarterly basis, the portfolio managers as well as the internal valuation committee review and consider a variety of factors in determining the potential for loss impairment. Factors considered include the following. the issuers most recent financing events; an analysis of whether fundamental deterioration has occurred; whether or not the issuers progress has been substantially less than expected; whether or not the valuations have declined significantly in the entitys market sector; whether or not the internal valuation committee believes there is a 50% probability that the issuer will need financing within six months at a lower price than our carrying value; and whether or not we have the ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery, enabling us to receive value equal to or greater than our cost. The quarterly (or monthly) valuation procedures described above are in addition to the portfolio managers ongoing responsibility to frequently monitor developments affecting those invested assets, paying particular attention to events that might give rise to impairment write downs. The size of our investment portfolio allows our portfolio managers a degree of flexibility in determining which individual investments should be sold to achieve our primary investment goals of assuring our ability to meet our commitments to policyholders and other creditors and maximizing our investment returns. In order to meet the objective of maintaining a flexible portfolio that can achieve these goals, our fixed income and equity portfolios are classified as available for sale. We continually evaluate these portfolios, and our purchases and sales of investments are based on our cash requirements, the characteristics of our insurance liabilities, and current market conditions. At the time we determine an other than temporary impairment in the value of a particular investment to have occurred, we consider the current facts and circumstances and make a decision to either record a write down in the carrying value of the security or sell the security; in either case, recognizing a realized loss. With respect to our venture capital portfolio, we manage our portfolio to maximize return, evaluating current market conditions and the future outlook for the entities in which we have invested. Because this portfolio primarily consists of privately held, early stage venture investments, events giving rise to 55 impairment can occur in a brief period of time (e.g., the entity has been unsuccessful in securing additional financing, other investors decide to withdraw their support, complications arise in the product development process, etc.), and decisions are made at that point in time, based on the specific facts and circumstances, with respect to a recognition of other than temporary impairment, or sale of the investment. ADOPTION OF ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 1 On January 12, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 1, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (FSP 106 1). This pronouncement provides companies with the option to make a one time election to defer accounting for the effects of the Medicare Act referenced in its title (the Act). We have decided to defer accounting for the Act under FSP 106 1 and have made the required disclosures in Note 13 Retirement Plans to the consolidated financial statements. The final accounting guidance could require changes to previously reported information. We will monitor the FASB deliberations and account for the Act based on the pronouncement expected to be issued. FIN 46(R) In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, which was replaced in December 2003 (FIN 46(R)). FIN 46(R), along with its related interpretations, requires consolidation of all variable interest entities (VIE) by the primary beneficiary, as these terms are defined in FIN 46(R). We began applying the consolidation requirements for new VIEs in the first quarter of 2003. For VIEs created before January 31, 2003, the effective date of adoption was deferred until the first interim or annual period ending after December 15, 2003 (for us, the first quarter of 2004), but early and partial adoption were permitted. We chose to partially adopt FIN 46(R) under the early adoption provisions in 2003, which resulted in us consolidating certain entities (summarized below) that we had not previously consolidated. We are still evaluating the implications of FIN 46(R) on our participation in various Lloyds underwriting syndicates. Upon partial adoption, we recorded a loss of $21 million (net of a deferred tax benefit of $3 million) in our consolidated statement of operations in 2003, classified as a cumulative effect of accounting change and representing the cumulative impact of FIN 46(R) on periods prior to the July 1, 2003 date of partial adoption. The entities that we consolidated (or deconsolidated, with respect to the preferred securities of trusts) under our partial adoption of FIN 46(R) were as follows. Investment We hold an investment in an insurance company that provides insurance coverage to markets in Baltimore and Washington D.C. Our investment includes a substantial majority of the companys convertible preferred stock, but none of its voting common stock. As a result of our economic interest in the entity, we have the majority exposure to variability through our preferred stock ownership and a loan to the company, both of which are considered variable interests as defined in FIN 46(R). Accordingly, we began consolidating this entity in the third quarter. The carrying value of this investment at December 31, 2003 was approximately $4 million. Municipal Trusts We own interests in various municipal trusts that were formed for the purpose of allowing us to more flexibly generate investment income in a manner consistent with our investment objectives and tax position. As of September 30, 2003, there were 36 such trusts, which held a combined total of $450 million in municipal securities, of which eight had not been included in our consolidated financial statements prior to our adoption of FIN 46(R) because we did not hold majority ownership in them. However, we do have the majority exposure to variability for these trusts. Therefore, we consolidated these eight trusts in 2003. The combined carrying value of these trusts at December 31, 2003 was $366 million. 56 Venture Capital Entities In our venture capital investment portfolio, we have numerous investments in small to medium sized companies, in which we have variable interests through stock ownership and, in some cases, loans. All of these investments are held for the purpose of generating investment returns, and the companies in which we invest span a variety of business sectors, including technology, telecommunications and healthcare. As a result of our review of this portfolio, we identified three entities that were required to be consolidated under the provisions of FIN 46(R). The combined carrying value of these entities at December 31, 2003 was $(5) million. Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of trusts holding solely subordinated debentures of the company (Preferred Securities) These securities had a carrying value of $897 million, and prior to September 30, 2003 were classified as a separate line on our balance sheet between liabilities and shareholders equity. These securities were issued by five separate trusts that were established for the sole purpose of issuing the securities to investors, and the securities were fully guaranteed by us. At September 30, 2003, we reclassified these securities to Debt in the liability section of our Consolidated Balance Sheet, as newly required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity, which generally required that an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within its scope as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). In the fourth quarter of 2003, we determined that the provisions of FIN 46(R) applied to the trusts that issued these securities, and as a result we deconsolidated the trusts for financial reporting purposes. The debt we issued to these trusts, previously eliminated in the consolidation of our financial results, is now included in the Debt section of liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. The net impact of de consolidating these trusts was to increase our reported debt liabilities outstanding by $928 million and eliminate the $897 million of Preferred Securities issued by the trusts from our consolidated balance sheet. The difference between the two amounts was comprised of the $31 million combined equity interests we held in the deconsolidated trusts. The consolidation/deconsolidation of the foregoing entities had the net impact of increasing (decreasing) the balance sheet and statement of operations captions by the amounts indicated in the following table. Investment Municipal Trust Preferred Securities Venture Capital Total (In millions) Assets $ (14 ) $ 84 $ 31 $ (1 ) $ 100 Liabilities 3 84 31 3 121 Cumulative effect of accounting change $ (17 ) $ $ $ (4 ) $ (21 ) Premiums earned $ 1 $ $ $ $ 1 Other revenue 3 2 5 Operating and administrative expenses 2 3 2 7 Loss and loss adjustment expenses 1 1 In addition to the foregoing entities that were consolidated pursuant to FIN 46(R), we also hold significant interests in other variable interest entities for which we are not considered to be the primary beneficiary, as follows. We have a significant variable interest in two real estate entities, but we are not considered to be the primary beneficiary. The total carrying value of these entities was approximately $48 million as of September 30, 2003, which also represents our maximum exposure to loss. The purpose of our involvement in these entities is to generate investment returns. 57 We also have certain remaining variable interests in Camperdown UK Limited, an entity that we sold in 2003. We utilized this entity as one of our corporate names and the vehicle for our participation at Lloyds for 2003 and prior years of account through a single syndicate (Syndicate 5000). Our variable interest results from an agreement to indemnify the purchaser in the event a specified reserve deficiency develops, a reserve related foreign exchange impact occurs, or a foreign tax adjustment is imposed on a pre sale reporting period. The maximum amount of this indemnification obligation is $203 million. In addition, in 2003 we entered into a 100% quota share reinsurance agreement with Syndicate 5000 that in effect transferred Syndicate 5000s underwriting results for the 2003 year of account to us. SFAS No. 150 As noted above, we adopted the provisions of SFAS 150 in the third quarter of 2003 with respect to our Preferred Securities, our only financial instruments that fell within the scope of SFAS No. 150. Upon the application of the provisions of FIN 46(R) in the fourth quarter of 2003 to trusts that issued these securities, we no longer have any financial instruments to which SFAS No. 150 applies. SFAS No. 141 In 2002, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, which established financial accounting and reporting standards for business combinations. (Nuveen Investments had applied the relevant provisions of this statement to its 2001 acquisition of Symphony Asset Management LLC). The statement requires all business combinations initiated subsequent to June 30, 2001 to be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. In addition, this statement required that intangible assets that can be identified and meet certain criteria be recognized as assets apart from goodwill. SFAS No. 142 In 2002, we implemented the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which established financial accounting and reporting for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. The statement changed prior accounting requirements relating to the method by which intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, including goodwill, are tested for impairment on an annual basis. It also required that those assets meeting the criteria for classification as intangible assets with finite useful lives be amortized to expense over those lives, while intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill are not to be amortized. As a result of implementing the provisions of this statement, we did not record any goodwill amortization expense in 2003 or 2002. In 2001, goodwill amortization expense totaled $114 million. Amortization expense associated with intangible assets totaled $31 million in 2003, compared with $18 million in 2002 and $2 million 2001. In connection with our reclassification of certain assets previously accounted for as goodwill to other intangible assets upon our adoption of SFAS No. 142 in 2002, we established a deferred tax liability of $6 million in the second quarter of 2002. That provision was classified as a cumulative effect of accounting change effective as of January 1, 2002. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, we restated our results for the first quarter of 2002, reducing net income for that period from the reported $139 million, or $0.63 per common share (diluted) to $133 million, or $0.60 per common share (diluted). SFAS No. 144 During 2002, we also implemented the provisions of SFAS No. 144, Accounting for Impairment of Long Lived Assets. As a result of implementation, we monitor the recoverability of the value of our long lived assets to be held and used based on our estimate of the future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) expected to result from the use of each asset and its eventual disposition considering any events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We monitor the value of our long lived assets to be disposed of and report them at the lower of carrying value or fair value less our estimated cost to sell. We had no impairment adjustments related to our long lived assets in 2002. SFAS No. 133 On January 1, 2001, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS Nos. 137 and 138. Provisions of SFAS No. 133 require the recognition of derivatives as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and 58 the measurement of those instruments at fair value. We have limited involvement with derivative instruments, primarily for purposes of hedging against fluctuations in market indices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We also have entered into a variety of other financial instruments considered to be derivatives, but which are not designated as hedges, that we utilize to minimize the potential impact of market movements in certain investment portfolios. Our adoption of SFAS No 133, as amended, did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of continuing operations. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS At December 31, 2003, our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $1.07 billion, compared with $1.01 billion at December 31, 2002. Our asset management subsidiary, Nuveen Investments, Inc., accounted for the majority of the $52 million increase, primarily resulting from additional goodwill recorded at The St. Paul parent company resulting from Nuveen Investments repurchase of common shares from its minority shareholders. Our acquisition of the right to renew certain business from Kemper Insurance Company in 2003 also contributed to the increase in goodwill and intangible assets over 2002. In the second quarter of 2003, we completed the annual evaluation of our recorded goodwill for impairment in accordance with provisions of SFAS No. 142. That evaluation concluded that none of our goodwill was impaired. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for a schedule of goodwill and acquired intangible assets. ELIMINATION OF ONE QUARTER REPORTING LAGS In the first quarter of 2003, we eliminated the one quarter reporting lag for our underwriting operations at Lloyds to coincide with the timing of reporting for all of our other international operations. As a result, our consolidated results for 2003 included the results of those operations for the fourth quarter of 2002 and all quarters of 2003. The incremental impact on our property liability operations of eliminating the reporting lag, consisting of the results of these operations for the three months ended December 31, 2003, was as follows. Year Ended Dec. 31, 2003 (In millions) Net written premiums $ 67 Decrease in unearned premiums 39 Net earned premiums 106 Incurred losses and underwriting expenses (155 ) Net investment income 5 Other income 10 Total pretax loss $ (34 ) Of the total net written premiums and underwriting result in the foregoing table, $64 million and $(1) million, respectively, was recorded in our ongoing Specialty Commercial segment, and $3 million and $(48) million, respectively, was recorded in our runoff Other segment. 59 In 2001, we eliminated the one quarter reporting lag for our primary underwriting operations in foreign countries (not including our operations at Lloyds). As a result, our consolidated results for 2001 include their results for the fourth quarter of 2000 and all quarters of 2001. The incremental impact on our property liability operations for the year ended December 31, 2001 of eliminating the reporting lag, which consists of the results of these operations for the three months ended December 31, 2001, was as follows. Year Ended Dec. 31, 2001 (In millions) Net written premiums $ 71 Decrease in unearned premiums 15 Net earned premiums 86 Incurred losses and underwriting expenses (131 ) Net investment income 14 Other income Total pretax loss $ (31 ) RECLASSIFICATION OF LLOYDS COMMISSION EXPENSES In 2003, we reclassified certain commission expenses related to our operations at Lloyds. In prior years, we determined commission expense based on premiums reported by the Lloyds market (net of commissions) using an estimated average commission rate. Until recently, gross premiums (prior to reduction for commissions) were not readily available from the Lloyds market. In 2003, we began recording actual commission expense for our Lloyds business. We reclassified prior period results to record actual commission expense on a basis consistent with that implemented in 2003. There was no impact to net income or shareholders equity as previously reported for any prior periods, because the reclassification had the impact of increasing previously reported premiums and commission expense in equal and offsetting amounts. For the year ended December 31, 2003, this reclassification had the impact of increasing both net earned premiums and policy acquisition costs by $81 million compared with what would have been recorded under our prior method of estimation. In addition, net written premiums increased by $116 million in 2003 (a portion of which was due to the elimination of the one quarter reporting lag). For the year ended December 31, 2002, the impact was an increase to both net earned premiums and policy acquisition costs of $112 million and an increase to net written premiums of $91 million. For the year ended December 31, 2001, the impact was an increase to both net earned premiums and policy acquisition costs of $112 million and an increase to net written premiums of $132 million. PRESENTATION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION BASED ON STATUTORY ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Our U.S. property liability insurance operations comprise the majority of our business. These operations are required under applicable state insurance legislation and regulations to publicly report information on the basis of Statutory Accounting Principles (SAP), including net written premiums, statutory loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, and statutory underwriting expense ratio information. We provide in this report selected SAP information for all of our property liability underwriting operations, as well as certain GAAP information for such operations. The types of SAP information included herein are common measures of the performance of a property liability insurer, and we believe the inclusion of such information will aid investors in comparing our results with those of our peers in the industry. In addition, management uses this SAP information to monitor our financial performance. Definitions of the statutory information included herein are included in the Definitions of Certain Statutory Accounting Terms section of this discussion. 60 PROPERTY LIABILITY OPERATIONS Underwriting Results by Segment Underwriting result is a common measurement of a property liability insurers performance, representing earned premiums less losses incurred and underwriting expenses. In accordance with provisions of SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, we have designated underwriting result as the measure we use to evaluate the performance of our property liability underwriting segments. The statutory combined ratio, representing the sum of the statutory loss ratio and the statutory expense ratio, is also a common measure of underwriting performance. The statutory loss ratio measures insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred as a percentage of earned premiums. The statutory expense ratio measures underwriting expenses as a percentage of premiums written. The lower the ratio, the better the result. The following table summarizes net written premiums, underwriting results and combined ratios for each of our property liability underwriting business segments for the last three years (underwriting results are presented on a GAAP basis; combined ratios are presented on a statutory accounting basis). All data for 2002 and 2001 were reclassified to conform to our new segment reporting format implemented in 2003. Following the table are an overview of our property liability operations and detailed analyses of our results by segment. % of 2003 Years Ended December 31 Written Premiums 2003 2002 2001 ($ in millions) SPECIALTY COMMERCIAL Net written premiums 64 % $ 4,864 $ 3,972 $ 3,164 Underwriting result $ 288 $ 24 $ (273 ) Combined ratio 93.3 97.8 108.6 COMMERCIAL LINES Net written premiums 33 % $ 2,461 $ 1,955 $ 1,697 Underwriting result $ 235 $ 141 $ (153 ) Combined ratio 88.3 91.7 108.3 OTHER* Net written premiums 3 % $ 215 $ 1,210 $ 3,034 Underwriting result $ (762 ) $ (874 ) $ (1,868 ) * Statutory ratios are not meaningful in a runoff environment because the Company has generally ceased underwriting new business in these operations. In discussions that follow, we sometimes use the term prior year loss development, which refers to the income statement impact of changes in the provision for losses and LAE in a given year for claims incurred in periods prior to the year of the income statement impact. Similarly, we sometimes refer to current year loss development or current accident year loss activity, which refers to the income statement impact of recording the provision for losses and LAE in a given year for losses incurred in that year. Property Liability Insurance Overview As described earlier in this discussion, we revised our segment reporting structure in 2003. Our ongoing operations are reported in two segments Specialty Commercial and Commercial Lines. Those operations which are in runoff are reported in the Other segment. Premium growth of 24% in our ongoing segments in 2003 was driven by strong business retention levels, price increases, as well as new business (including premium volume resulting from our acquisition of the right to renew certain business previously 61 underwritten by the Kemper Insurance Companies). Both ongoing segments recorded strong premium increases in 2002 over 2001, with the most notable growth occurring in our Surety and Construction operations (primarily due to strong price increases in Construction, as well as acquisition related premium growth in Surety), and in the Specialty category of the Specialty Commercial segment (due to significant price increases and new business volume in the majority of business centers comprising that category). Our consolidated net written premiums in 2001 included a reduction of $128 million for premiums ceded under specific reinsurance treaties described below. Net written premium volume of $215 million in our runoff segment in 2003 consisted primarily of prior year premium adjustments in our reinsurance operations and reporting endorsements (as defined in the Health Care section of this report) in our Health Care operation. In our runoff segment, 2002 premiums of $1.21 billion were 60% below the 2001 total of $3.03 billion, reflecting our decision at the end of 2001 to exit those lines of business. The strong improvement in underwriting results in our ongoing segments in both 2003 and 2002 reflected the impact of significant price increases over the last several years and the success of our efforts to improve the quality of our book of business. Our ongoing segments underwriting results in 2001 included $279 million of losses related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. The underwriting loss for our runoff segment in 2003 included a $350 million provision to strengthen prior year loss reserves in our Health Care operation, and additional prior year provisions totaling $260 million in certain other operations in runoff as described in more detail in the Other section of this discussion. In 2002, the underwriting loss for our runoff segment included a $472 million pretax loss related to the Western MacArthur asbestos litigation settlement, and significant provisions to strengthen prior year loss reserves in certain of our operations in runoff. In 2001, the $1.87 billion underwriting loss in our runoff segment was driven by the $735 million of prior year loss reserves in our Health Care operation, and $662 million of losses related to the terrorist attack. Our ongoing segments expense ratios improved in both 2003 and 2002, reflecting the combined effect of significant premium growth in both years, as well as efficiencies realized throughout our underwriting operations as a result of our expense reduction initiatives over the last three years. The magnitude of improvement in 2002 over 2001 was mitigated somewhat by the impact of written premiums ceded for terrorism coverage. Expense reduction efforts in recent years included the consolidation of field office locations, the streamlining of our claim organization, the restructuring of several of our business segments, and the combined elimination of approximately 1,200 employee positions since our strategic initiatives announced in December 2001. As a result of those and other expense management initiatives, we were able to reduce our fixed expenses in both 2003 and 2002. Reinsurance treaties. In 2001, we entered into two aggregate excess of loss reinsurance treaties. Under the terms of the reinsurance treaties, we transferred, or ceded, insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses to our reinsurers, along with the related written and earned premiums. One of these treaties was corporate wide, with coverage triggered when our insurance losses and LAE across all lines of business reached a certain level, as prescribed by terms of the treaty. We did not cede any losses to the corporate treaty in 2001, but we recorded a $34 million net detriment in 2001 related to a similar treaty we were party to in 2000, primarily due to adjustments for cessions made in 2000. We did not enter into such a treaty in 2003 or 2002. Our reinsurance operation was party to a separate aggregate excess of loss treaty in 2002 and 2001. The results of our reinsurance operation in 2002 and 2001 included a $34 million detriment and a $159 million benefit, respectively, related to those treaties. The detriment in 2002 primarily resulted from the commutation of a portion of the 2001 treaty. We did not cede any losses to our reinsurance operations 2002 excess of loss treaty. The 2001 benefit resulted from losses ceded to the 2001 treaty. Catastrophe losses. Effective January 1, 2003, we changed our disclosure regarding catastrophe losses. We no longer classify all losses from Insurance Services Office (ISO) defined catastrophes as 62 catastrophe losses. We revised our definition of losses reported as catastrophes to include only those events that we believe generate losses beyond a level normally expected in our business. This revised definition has no impact on our recorded results for any period included in this report. Catastrophe losses reported in prior periods have been revised to conform to our new definition. In 2003, we did not experience any significant catastrophe losses, as newly defined; however, we recorded a net $55 million reduction in the provision for catastrophes incurred in prior years, nearly all of which was related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. Catastrophe losses in 2002 totaled $31 million, primarily resulting from several storms across the United States throughout the year. Catastrophe losses totaled $1.27 billion in 2001, of which $941 million was due to the September 11th terrorist attack. The majority of the remaining catastrophe losses in 2001 largely resulted from of a variety of storms throughout the year in the United States and the explosion of a chemical manufacturing plant in Toulouse, France. Since catastrophe losses are not recognized until an event occurs, the occurrence of a catastrophic event can have a material impact on our results of operations during the period incurred. Subsequent changes to our estimate of catastrophic losses, based on better information, can also materially impact our results of operations during that period. Specialty Commercial The business centers comprising this segment are designated specialty commercial operations because each provides dedicated underwriting, claim and risk control services that require specialized expertise, and each focuses exclusively on the respective customers it serves. Insurance coverage is often provided on proprietary insurance forms. This segment includes our Surety and Construction operations, our ongoing International & Lloyds operations and eight other specialty business centers collectively referred to as Specialty. We consider our Surety and Construction business centers to be specialty operations, because each business requires specialized underwriting, risk management and claim expertise. Our Surety business center underwrites surety bonds, which are agreements under which one party (the surety) guarantees to another party (the owner or obligee) that a third party (the contractor or principal) will perform in accordance with contractual obligations. For Contract Surety, we provide bid, performance and payment bonds, to a broad spectrum of clients specializing in general contracting, highway and bridge construction, asphalt paving, underground and pipeline construction, manufacturing, civil and heavy engineering, and mechanical and electrical construction. Bid bonds provide financial assurance that the bid has been submitted in good faith and that the contractor intends to enter into the contract at the price bid and provide the required performance and payment bonds. Performance bonds require us to fulfill the contractors obligations to the obligee should the contractor fail to perform under the contract. Payment bonds guarantee that the contractor will pay certain subcontractor, labor and material bills associated with a project. For Commercial Surety, we currently offer license and permit bonds, reclamation bonds, fiduciary bonds, court bonds, public official bonds, indemnity bonds, workers compensation self insurer bonds, transfer agent indemnity bonds, depository bonds, and other miscellaneous bonds. In addition to its U.S. operations, our Surety business center includes our Mexican subsidiary, Afianzadora Insurgentes, the largest surety bond underwriter in Mexico, and our Canadian operation St. Paul Guarantee, the largest surety bond underwriter in Canada. In total, based on 2002 premium volume, our surety operations are the largest in North America. The Construction business center offers a variety of products and services, including traditional insurance and risk management solutions, to a broad range of contractors and parties responsible for construction projects. Our International & Lloyds operation consists of the following components: our ongoing operations at Lloyds, and our ongoing specialty commercial operations outside of the United States, including our Global Accounts business center (collectively referred to hereafter as international specialties). Through a single syndicate at Lloyds (for which we provide 100% of the capital), we underwrite insurance in four 63 principal lines of business: Aviation, Marine, Global Property and Personal Lines. Aviation underwrites a broad spectrum of international airline, manufacturer, airport and general aviation business. Marine underwrites energy, cargo and hull coverages. Global Property underwrites property coverages worldwide. Personal Lines provides specialized accident and health coverages for international clients, including personal accident, kidnap and ransom, and payment protection insurance. Our ongoing international specialties (other than Global Accounts) are located in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland, where we offer specialized insurance and risk management services to a variety of industry sectors. Our Global Accounts business center is based in the United States. The following nine specialty business centers comprise the remainder of the Specialty Commercial segment and are collectively referred to as Specialty in the following table. Financial & Professional Services provides coverages for financial institutions, including property, liability, professional liability and management liability coverages for corporations and nonprofit organizations; and errors and omissions coverages for a variety of professionals such as lawyers, insurance agents and real estate agents. Technology offers a comprehensive portfolio of specialty products and services to companies involved in telecommunications, information technology, health sciences and electronics manufacturing. Umbrella/Excess & Surplus Lines provides insurance coverage in two distinct markets. The Specialty Excess and Umbrella unit focuses on umbrella and excess liability business for retail and wholesale distribution sources, where other insurance companies provide the primary coverage. The Excess & Surplus Lines unit underwrites non admitted program and individual risk business for established wholesale distributors. The Excess and Surplus Lines Underwriting Facilities business center underwrites liability and property facilities produced by wholesalers and managing general agents. Public Sector Services markets insurance products and services to municipalities, counties, Indian Nation gaming and selected special government districts, including water and sewer utilities, and non rail transit authorities. Discover Re provides insurance programs principally involving property, liability and workers compensation coverages, serving retail brokers and insureds who are committed to the alternative risk transfer market. Alternative risk transfer techniques are typically utilized by insureds who are financially able to assume a substantial portion of their own losses. Oil and Gas provides specialized property and liability products for customers involved in the exploration and production of oil and gas. Ocean Marine provides insurance coverage internationally for ocean and inland waterways traffic. Personal Catastrophe Risk underwrites personal property coverages in certain states exposed to earthquakes and hurricanes. 64 The following table summarizes results for this segment for the last three years. In accordance with provisions of SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, since our Surety and Construction business centers were combined and reported as a separate segment in 2002, and our International & Lloyds operations were reported as a separate segment in 2002, we continue to separately present and discuss their results for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2003 because they are considered to be of continuing significance in analyzing the results of our operations. Years Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 ($ in millions) Specialty Net written premiums $ 2,298 $ 1,825 $ 1,474 Percentage increase over prior year 26 % 24 % Underwriting result $ 371 $ 189 $ 1 Statutory combined ratio: Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 59.3 65.2 74.4 Underwriting expense ratio 22.4 22.7 24.6 Combined ratio 81.7 87.9 99.0 International & Lloyds Net written premiums $ 1,332 $ 881 $ 717 Percentage increase over prior year 51 % 23 % Underwriting result $ 78 $ 56 $ (235 ) Statutory combined ratio: Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 61.3 59.9 105.4 Underwriting expense ratio 32.3 30.2 31.7 Combined ratio 93.6 90.1 137.1 Surety and Construction Net written premiums $ 1,234 $ 1,266 $ 973 Percentage change from prior year (3 )% 30 % Underwriting result $ (161 ) $ (221 ) $ (39 ) Statutory combined ratio: Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 77.7 83.2 66.3 Underwriting expense ratio 35.0 34.6 37.1 Combined ratio 112.7 117.8 103.4 Total Specialty Commercial Net written premiums $ 4,864 $ 3,972 $ 3,164 Percentage increase over prior year 22 % 26 % Underwriting result $ 288 $ 24 $ (273 ) Statutory combined ratio: Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 65.0 69.6 78.6 Underwriting expense ratio 28.3 28.2 30.0 Combined ratio 93.3 97.8 108.6 65 Specialty 2003 vs. 2002 All business centers in this category contributed to the strong premium growth over 2002. Financial and Professional Services premium volume of $624 million in 2003 was 56% higher than comparable 2002 premiums of $400 million, driven by price increases and new business principally generated by our December 2002 acquisition of the right to seek to renew the professional and financial risk practice business of Royal and SunAlliance, and the May 2003 acquisition of the right to seek to renew architects and engineers professional liability business from Kemper Insurance Companies. Technologys net written premiums of $426 million in 2003 grew 15% over 2002 premium volume of $372 million, primarily due to price increases and new business. Personal Catastrophe Risk premium volume of $131 million in 2003 was more than double the 2002 total of $61 million, due to a change in our reinsurance program related to this operation that resulted in less business being ceded to reinsurers. Price increases averaged 20% across the Specialty category in 2003 (excluding Discover Re and Personal Catastrophe Risk, whose premium structures differ somewhat from the remaining business centers in this category), compared with 29% in 2002. Virtually all business centers in the Specialty category contributed to the $182 million increase in underwriting profitability in 2003. The most notable improvements over 2002 were achieved by the Technology business center, with a $99 million increase in underwriting profit, and Financial & Professional Services, with a $39 million increase in underwriting profit. The Technology result in 2003 included $74 million of favorable prior year loss development. Improved underwriting discipline with respect to risk selection, significant price increases in recent years and the addition of profitable new business through acquisitions have contributed to increased profitability in the Specialty category. 2002 vs. 2001 The 22% increase in net written premium volume in 2002 over 2001 was driven by price increases and new business in several business centers. Virtually every business center in this segment achieved an increase in premium volume over 2001. In Financial & Professional Services, premium volume of $400 million grew 21% over 2001 due to strong price increases, particularly in the Directors and Officers line of business. Umbrella/Excess & Surplus Lines written premiums of $253 million were more than double comparable 2001 volume of $116 million, driven by a new commercial umbrella operation launched in 2002. Technology premiums of $372 million in 2002 were slightly higher than the 2001 total of $366 million, reflecting the effects of the economic weakness in the technology market sector. The success of our underwriting and pricing actions throughout this category were reflected in the $188 million improvement in profitability over 2001. Underwriting profits in Financial & Professional Services in 2002 were $74 million higher than in 2001. Personal Catastrophe Risk achieved a $37 million increase in profitability over 2001. All of our operations in the Specialty category benefited in 2002 from strong price increases and the relative lack of catastrophe losses. Underwriting results in 2001 included $51 million of losses related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. International & Lloyd s 2003 vs. 2002 Net written premium volume of $1.33 billion in 2003 included $64 million of incremental premiums from the elimination of the one quarter reporting lag at our operations at Lloyds (the remaining $3 million of incremental premiums described earlier in this discussion were recorded in our runoff Other segment). Excluding that additional $64 million, premium volume in 2003 of $1.27 billion was still 44% higher than in 2002. We experienced strong growth in our operations at Lloyds due to price increases, new business, favorable foreign currency exchange impacts and our increased participation in Lloyds following the consolidation of most of our Lloyds operations into one wholly owned syndicate in 2003. Our total Lloyds premium volume in 2003 was $705 million (including the impact of the elimination of the one quarter reporting lag), compared with $398 million in 2002. In our international specialty operations, premium volume of $627 million was 30% higher than comparable 2002 premiums of $483 66 million. Price increases, new business and strong renewal retention rates all contributed to the strong growth over 2002. New business volume was particularly strong in Canada. The improvement in underwriting results in 2003 was concentrated in our international specialty operations, particularly in Canada and the United Kingdom. The underwriting profit at our operations at Lloyds was down slightly from 2002, primarily due to $24 million of prior year losses in the personal lines business unit at Lloyds. 2002 vs. 2001 At Lloyds, 2002 premium volume of $398 million grew 24% over comparable 2001 premiums of $320 million, primarily driven by strong price increases and new business in certain classes of our Personal Lines business. In addition, Aviation premiums increased significantly due to our increased participation in that coverage in 2002. In our international specialty operations, premium volume of $483 million was 22% higher than the 2001 total of $397 million, driven by price increases and new business throughout these operations. The 2001 total included approximately $44 million of incremental premiums from the elimination of the one quarter reporting lag. Our international specialty operations and our operations at Lloyds both contributed to the $291 million improvement in underwriting results in 2002 compared with 2001. Price increases and the absence of significant weather related losses were factors in the improvement over 2001. Underwriting results in 2001 included $90 million of losses related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. Surety and Construction 2003 vs. 2002 Net written premiums generated by our Surety business center totaled $475 million in 2003, down 1% compared with premiums of $480 million in 2002. The decline was primarily due to the closing of certain field offices, the impact of underwriting actions to improve the risk profile of our book of business, and increased reinsurance costs. In our Construction operation, net written premium volume in 2003 of $759 million was 3% less than premiums of $786 million in 2002, as the impact of price increases in 2003 was offset by a reduction in new business. The Surety underwriting loss totaled $168 million in 2003, compared with an underwriting loss of $111 million in 2002. Suretys 2003 underwriting loss included an $59 million pretax loss provision (net of reinsurance) related to one of our accounts that was in bankruptcy and unable to perform its bonded obligations. In April 2003, a bankruptcy court approved the sale of substantially all of the assets of the account. Following that approval, we received claim notices with respect to approximately $120 million of bonds securing certain workers compensation and retiree health benefit obligations of the account. We originally recorded a net pretax loss provision of $89 million when the claim notices were received and determined to be valid. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we re estimated the amount of reinsurance recoverable related to that pretax loss, and recorded a $27 million reduction in our net loss. Conversely, in the fourth quarter of 2003, we recorded a $27 million provision to strengthen our Surety operations prior year loss reserves, primarily related to a re estimation of reinsurance recoverable related to losses incurred in 2002 associated with Enron Corporations bankruptcy. The 2002 Surety underwriting loss included a $34 million loss provision recorded after a judicial decision regarding surety bonds issued in connection with the construction of two large Brazilian oil rigs. The Construction underwriting profit of $7 million in 2003 represented a significant improvement over the 2002 underwriting loss of $110 million, which included significant charges to strengthen prior year reserves, as discussed in more detail below. The improvement over 2002 reflected the impact of significant price increases and our efforts to improve the quality of our book of business through the nonrenewal of underperforming accounts and the selective addition of new business. 67 In our Surety operation, we continued to experience an increase in the frequency of reported losses in 2003. Certain segments of our surety business tend to be characterized by low frequency but potentially high severity losses. Within our commercial surety segments, we have exposures related to a small number of accounts, which are now in various stages of bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, certain other accounts have experienced deterioration in creditworthiness since we issued bonds to them. Given the current economic climate and its impact on these companies, we may experience an increase in claims and, possibly, incur high severity losses. Such losses would be recognized in the period in which the claims are filed and determined to be a valid loss under the provisions of the surety bond issued. With regard to commercial surety bonds issued on behalf of companies operating in the energy trading sector, our aggregate pretax exposure, net of facultative reinsurance, is with five companies for a total of approximately $367 million ($305 million of which is from gas supply bonds), an amount that will decline over the contract periods. The largest individual exposure approximates $181 million (pretax). These companies all continue to perform their bonded obligations and, therefore, no claims have been filed. In addition to our largest exposure discussed above with respect to energy trading companies, our commercial surety business as of December 31, 2003 included seven accounts with gross pretax bond exposures greater than $100 million each, before reinsurance. The majority of these accounts have investment grade ratings, and all accounts continue to perform their bonded obligations. In 2003, we secured excess of loss reinsurance coverage for our commercial surety exposures in the form of two new treaties providing $500 million of aggregate loss limits over a five year period, with a maximum recovery of $100 million per principal for gas supply bonds and $150 million per principal for other bonds. The reinsurance program does not extend coverage to the small number of commercial surety accounts which were in bankruptcy at the inception of the reinsurance treaties. We continue with our intention to exit the segments of the commercial surety market discussed above by ceasing to write new business and, where possible, terminating the outstanding bonds. Since October 2000, when we made a strategic decision to significantly reduce the exposures in these segments, our total commercial surety gross open bond exposure has decreased by over 56% as of December 31, 2003. We will continue to be a market for traditional commercial surety business, which includes low limit business such as license and permit, probate, public official, and customs bonds. In the contract surety business, creditworthiness is a primary underwriting consideration and the underwriting process involves a number of factors, including consideration of a contractors financial condition, business prospects, experience and management. The risk in respect of a contract surety bond changes over time. Such risk tends to decrease as the related construction project is completed, but may increase to the extent the financial condition of the contractor deteriorates or difficulties arise during the course of the project. Losses in the contract surety business can occur as a result of a contractors failure to complete its bonded obligations in accordance with the contract terms. Such losses, if any, would be estimated by estimating the cost to complete the remaining work (which may include amounts advanced to the contractor by the surety) and the contractors unpaid bills, offset by monies due to the contractor, reinsurance and the estimated net realizable value of collateral. While our contract surety business typically has not been characterized by high severity losses, it is possible, given the current economic climate, that significant losses could occur. Some of our contract surety business, particularly with respect to larger accounts, is written on a co surety basis with other surety underwriters in order to manage and limit our aggregate exposure. Certain of these sureties have experienced, and may continue to experience, deterioration in their financial condition and financial strength ratings. If a loss is incurred and one of our co sureties fails to meet its obligations 68 under a bond, we and any other co surety or co sureties on the bond typically are jointly and severally liable for such obligations. As a result, our losses could significantly increase to the extent such an event or events occur. In the third quarter of 2003, we made collateralized advances to a construction contractor that had failed to make payments under certain of its debt obligations. These third quarter advances did not impact our results of operations because the loss incurred was offset by our estimated recoverable. In recent months, the contractor has completed a restructuring of its finances and entered into revised credit agreements with its lenders. As part of our strategy to mitigate our ultimate exposure to this account by facilitating the contractors efforts to complete bonded projects, we made additional advances for which we recorded an after tax loss, net of estimated reinsurance and co surety participation, of approximately $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. In February and early March 2004, we made or committed to make additional advances for which we recorded a net after tax loss of approximately $15 million. We have not changed our estimate of the recoverable from that established at the end of the third quarter of 2003. Any future changes in our estimate of the recoverable, whether positive or negative, will affect our results of operations. We may make further advances and, subject to our underwriting criteria, we may also decide to issue bonds for new projects undertaken by this contractor. If the contractor were to fail to complete its bonded projects, we estimate that our aggregate additional loss, net of estimated collateral, reinsurance recoveries and participation by co sureties (one of which has experienced ratings downgrades and is in runoff), would likely not exceed $75 million on an after tax basis, assuming a 35% statutory tax rate. Given the uncertainties relating to the contractors business and other factors, there is no assurance that our estimate and our potential exposure will not increase. 2002 vs. 2001 Total combined premium volume for our Surety and Construction operations increased by $293 million over 2001, primarily driven by $220 million of premium growth in Construction, where price increases averaged 30% in 2002. In the Surety business center, premium volume was $73 million higher than in 2001, primarily due to the combined $100 million contributed by St. Paul Guarantee in Canada (formerly London Guarantee), acquired in March 2002, and our acquisition in late 2001 of the right to seek to renew surety business previously underwritten by Firemans Fund Insurance Company (see the Acquisitions and Divestitures section of this discussion for further details about these acquisitions). Excluding the impact of the two acquisitions, Suretys net premium volume in 2002 was slightly below comparable 2001 levels, reflecting the tightened underwriting standards instituted in recent years, particularly with respect to our commercial surety business, and an increase in domestic reinsurance costs in 2002. 69 Both business centers contributed to the $182 million deterioration in underwriting results compared with 2001. The Construction underwriting loss of $110 million was $75 million worse than the comparable 2001 loss of $35 million, driven by adverse prior year loss development that prompted a $113 million fourth quarter provision to strengthen loss reserves in our general liability and workers compensation coverages. The 2002 current accident year loss ratio for Construction, however, was much improved over the same 2001 ratio, reflecting the impact of strong underwriting initiatives, price increases and the shift to a larger sized account profile. Approximately $93 million of Constructions $113 million adverse prior year development was concentrated in general liability coverages. The table below allocates the general liability coverage portion of our reserve charge in 2002, by accident year, within our Construction business center. 2002 Accident Year Beginning Reserve Reserve Charge (In millions) 2001 $ 150 $ 13 2000 74 64 1999 90 35 Prior 255 (19 ) Total $ 569 $ 93 Our analysis of trends for our general liability coverages in 2002 revealed case reserve strengthening occurring throughout the year. In addition, actual loss development during the year continued to exceed our expectations. The average paid closed claim trend had exceeded the average case reserve trend in the recent development. The average outstanding case reserve increased from $54,000 at year end 2001 to $66,000 at year end 2002. The average paid claim increased from $18,000 at year end 2001 to $28,000 at year end 2002. While the average paid claim was still below the average case reserve, this development in the data caused us to revise our trends and increase our estimate of ultimate losses. We increased our estimate of required loss reserves and recorded a $93 million increase to loss reserves. However, no changes were made to any other underlying assumptions. The remaining reserve charge of $20 million related to workers compensation coverages (with beginning 2002 reserves of $363 million), primarily from the 2001 accident year. This charge resulted from a comprehensive claim review which focused on, among other data, a better estimate of our life time benefit obligations. As a result of this review, we increased the number of claims identified as receiving life time benefits and, accordingly, increased the related loss reserves. No changes were made to our underlying assumptions. Suretys 2002 underwriting loss was $111 million, compared with a loss of $4 million in 2001. The 2002 results reflected prior year reserve charges of $104 million, which included $34 million related to the judgment regarding the Petrobras oil rig construction related to a 1996 incident, and $7 million for the settlement of litigation related to surety contracts issued on behalf of Enron Corporation related to a 2001 reported incident. Suretys underwriting results in 2002 were also negatively impacted by reinstatement premiums paid for contract surety reinsurance, which reduced our net earned premiums, as well as an increase in losses in our contract surety business where we have experienced a higher than normal level of loss frequency. In addition to the Petrobras and Enron events referred to above, we experienced an increase in the frequency of losses in 2002, with much of this increase being tied to the economic downturn in North America. Included in the $104 million of prior year development for 2002 was a fourth quarter provision totaling $63 million in our domestic surety operations as detailed in the following table. The entire Surety business center prior year reserve charge was driven by development on specific claims. Since surety losses are not recognized until the period a claim is filed, no changes were made to assumptions. The insurance 70 concept of accident year is not meaningful to surety business. The yearly information in the following table represents the year in which we determined that an incident had occurred, which might give rise to a possible claim. 2002 Accident Year Beginning Reserve Reserve Charge (In millions) 2001 $ 77 $ 25 2000 27 23 1999 4 7 Prior 44 8 Total $ 152 $ 63 Commercial Lines The Commercial Lines segment includes our Small Commercial, Middle Market Commercial and Property Solutions business centers, as well as the results of our limited involvement in involuntary insurance pools. The Small Commercial business center services commercial firms that typically have between one and fifty employees through its proprietary St. Paul Mainstreet(SM) and St. Paul Advantage(SM) products, with a particular focus on offices, wholesalers, retailers, artisan contractors and other service risks. The Middle Market Commercial business center offers comprehensive insurance coverages for a wide variety of manufacturing, wholesale, service and retail exposures, as well as programs for selected industries that are national in scope and have similar risk characteristics such as franchises and associations. The majority of these programs were formerly classified as a separate Specialty Programs business center in our Specialty Commercial segment but were reclassified in 2003 to our Middle Market Commercial business center in the Commercial Lines segment to more accurately reflect the manner in which this business is underwritten and managed. This business center also offers loss sensitive casualty programs, including significant deductible and self insured retention options, for the higher end of the middle market sector. The Property Solutions business center combines our Large Accounts Property business with the commercial portion of our catastrophe risk business and allows us to take a unified approach to large property risks. The following table summarizes key financial data for each of the last three years in the Commercial Lines segment. Years Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 ($ in millions) Net written premiums $ 2,461 $ 1,955 $ 1,697 Percentage increase over prior year 26 % 15 % Underwriting result $ 235 $ 141 $ (153 ) Statutory combined ratio: Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 58.9 61.4 76.0 Underwriting expense ratio 29.4 30.3 32.3 Combined ratio 88.3 91.7 108.3 2003 vs. 2002 The 26% increase in net written premium volume in 2003 over 2002 was driven by a combination of higher customer retention, continued price increases, and significant new business generated by our acquisition of the right to renew certain business previously underwritten by Kemper Insurance Companies (described in more detail earlier in this discussion). After several years of significant 71 price increases and selective re underwriting of our book of business in this segment, our focus in 2003 was on retaining the quality new business developed in recent years. Although the pace of price increases began to slow in 2003, continued favorable market conditions and our strong presence in the marketplace provided us with the opportunity to achieve further price increases, where appropriate. Price increases across the entire segment averaged 11% for the year. Throughout the Commercial Lines segment in 2003, we continued to nonrenew underperforming classes of business and utilize our distribution network to capitalize on new business opportunities. The Kemper renewal rights transaction provided an influx of quality exposures that augmented the solid base of business we have built in recent years. In our Middle Market Commercial business center, net written premium volume of $1.61 billion was 31% higher than comparable 2002 premiums of $1.23 billion. In the Small Commercial business center, written premiums of $741 million grew 19% over 2002 premiums of $622 million. After extensive efforts in 2002 to build our capability to serve the small commercial marketplace, we turned our focus in 2003 to launching our insurance products tailored to meet the needs of this market sector. In the Property Solutions business center, 2003 premium volume of $73 million was 31% higher than 2002 premiums of $56 million, primarily due to new business volume and a reduction in the amount of business ceded to reinsurers. The Commercial Lines underwriting profit of $235 million in 2003 was over 65% higher than the comparable 2002 profit of $141 million, primarily driven by strong improvement in current accident year results in each business center comprising the segment. The growth in profitability in 2003 was achieved despite a significant increase in weather related losses in 2003 compared with 2002, primarily resulting from storms throughout the United States during the year. Results in 2003 also benefited from $30 million of favorable development on prior year loss reserves. The 2003 underwriting profit reflects the success of our stringent underwriting principles and aggressive risk control efforts, as well as the significant impact of price increases achieved in 2002 and 2003. In addition, in 2003 we accelerated our focus on expense discipline, which resulted in an over one point improvement in our statutory expense ratio for the year. As we continue to emphasize productivity enhancements, including increased use of automation and processing improvement initiatives, we expect further improvements in our expense ratio going forward. 2002 vs. 2001 Premium growth of 15% in 2002 was primarily due to price increases, the impacts of which were offset somewhat by a decline in business retention levels resulting from our efforts to increase profitability. We capitalized on favorable market conditions in 2002 by implementing significant price increases, rejecting new and renewal business where we could not achieve appropriate price increases, and selectively adding new business that met our pricing and underwriting criteria. Price increases across the entire segment averaged 23% in 2002. Middle Market Commercial net written premiums totaled $1.23 billion in 2002, 9% higher than 2001 premiums of $1.12 billion. Our focus in 2002 was to maximize the quality and profitability of our middle market book of business; as a result, the impact of significant rate increases was substantially offset by reductions in business retention rates and new business levels. Small Commercial premium volume of $622 million in 2002 grew 7% over 2001 premiums of $575 million. We greatly expanded our involvement in the small commercial marketplace in 2002 through the development of products to serve particular sectors of the market, and through investments in technology to enable easy access to those products by agents, brokers and insureds. The Commercial Lines segment total underwriting profit in 2002 of $141 million was significantly improved over the 2001 underwriting loss of $153 million, which included $136 million of losses related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. Current accident year results in 2002 in all three business centers in this segment improved over 2001, with the most notable improvement occurring in Middle Market Commercial. The $158 million improvement in underwriting results from 2001 to 2002 (after excluding losses from the terrorist attack in 2001) reflected the impact of price increases and the improvement in the quality of our book of business, as well as a decline in weather related losses. In 2001, reported results would have been significantly worse if not for the benefit of a $128 million reduction in prior year loss reserves, of which $93 million related to certain business written prior to 1988. 72 PROPERTY LIABILITY INSURANCE OPERATIONS Other This segment includes the results of the lines of business we placed in runoff in late 2001 and early 2002, including our former Health Care and Reinsurance segments, and the results of the following international operations: our runoff operations at Lloyds, including our participation in the insuring of the Lloyds Central Fund; Unionamerica, the London based underwriting unit acquired as part of our purchase of MMI in 2000; and international operations we decided to exit at the end of 2001. We have a management team in place for these operations, seeking to ensure that our outstanding claim obligations are settled in an expeditious and economical manner. This segment also includes the results of our participation in voluntary insurance pools, as well as loss development on business underwritten prior to 1980 (prior to 1988 for business acquired in our merger with USF&G Corporation in 1998). In addition to our participation in voluntary insurance pools, this prior year business includes the majority of our environmental and asbestos liability exposures. The oversight of these exposures is the responsibility of the same management team responsible for oversight of the other components of the Other segment. Our Health Care operation historically provided a wide range of medical liability insurance products and services throughout the entire health care delivery system. Our Reinsurance operations historically underwrote treaty and facultative reinsurance for a wide variety of property and liability exposures. The following table summarizes key financial data for each of the last three years in this segment. The table excludes statutory ratios, which are not meaningful in a runoff environment because the Company has generally ceased underwriting new business in these operations. Years Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 ($ in millions) Health Care Net written premiums $ 23 $ 172 $ 661 Percentage decline from prior year (87 )% (74 )% Underwriting result $ (391 ) $ (165 ) $ (935 ) Reinsurance Net written premiums $ 132 $ 751 $ 1,677 Percentage decline from prior year (82 )% (55 )% Underwriting result $ 3 $ (22 ) $ (726 ) Other Runoff Net written premiums $ 60 $ 287 696 Percentage decline from prior year (79 )% (59 )% Underwriting result $ (374 ) $ (687 ) (207 ) Total Other Segment Net written premiums $ 215 $ 1,210 3,034 Percentage change from prior year (82 )% (60 )% Underwriting result $ (762 ) $ (874 ) (1,868 ) 73 Health Care 2003 vs. 2002 Written premiums in 2003 primarily consisted of extended reporting endorsements and a small amount of professional liability coverage for other professionals such as dentists, nurse anesthetists, and other healthcare professionals who are not physicians or surgeons. These Other Professional policies were part of three year policies that we had committed to prior to our exit from the Health Care lines of business in 2001. Additionally, we are required to offer reporting endorsements to claims made policy holders at the time their policies are not renewed. These endorsements cover losses that occurred in prior periods that have not yet been reported. Unlike typical policies, premiums on these endorsements are fully earned, and the expected losses are fully reserved, at the time the endorsement is written. The vast majority of reporting endorsements underwritten in 2003 pertained to physicians and surgeons liability coverage. The 2003 underwriting loss included a $350 million provision recorded in the fourth quarter to increase net prior accident year loss reserves. The majority of remaining underwriting losses in 2003 consisted of current year loss provisions related to reporting endorsements. Further information regarding the $350 million prior year loss provision is included in the following table. 2003 Accident Year Beginning Reserve Allocation Of Charge (In millions) 2002 $ 450 $ 58 2001 456 117 2000 370 79 1999 268 14 Prior 532 82 Total $ 2,076 $ 350 The significant allocation to the three most recent incurred years is consistent with the nature of the claims made insurance product. The average payment date on this book of reserves is approximately two years, meaning that 50% of the losses will be settled within two years. Accordingly, the change in assumptions that resulted in the $350 million charge in 2003 significantly impacted the most recent incurred years, as expected. 2002 vs. 2001 Written premiums in 2002 were generated by extended reporting endorsements and professional liability coverages underwritten primarily in the first quarter of the year prior to our non renewal notifications becoming effective in several states. The majority of reporting endorsements underwritten in 2002 pertained to physicians and surgeons liability coverage. 74 The 2002 underwriting loss included $85 million in provisions to increase net prior accident year loss reserves, comprised specifically of a $97 million charge in the second quarter of the year, and reductions totaling $12 million throughout the year resulting primarily from reinsurance contract commutations. The majority of remaining losses in 2002 consisted of current year loss provisions related to reporting endorsements. Details regarding the $97 million prior year loss provision recorded in the second quarter of 2002 are included in the following table. 2002 Accident Year Beginning Reserve Allocation Of Charge (In millions) 2001 $ 607 $ 100 2000 572 13 1999 480 (16 ) 1998 328 (1 ) Prior 590 1 Total $ 2,577 $ 97 Analysis of Loss Provisions Recorded. In the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, we recorded net provisions of $350 million, $85 million and $735 million, respectively, to strengthen prior accident year loss reserves in our Health Care operation. The following table presents a rollforward of loss activity for the Health Care operation for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. This information includes loss amounts and claim data for our entire domestic Health Care operation, whereas tables presented elsewhere in this discussion relate only to our domestic medical malpractice line of business. Years Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 ($ in millions) Reserves for losses and allocated LAE at beginning of period $ 2,076 $ 2,577 $ 2,204 Losses and allocated LAE incurred: Reserve strengthening 350 85 735 Other incurred 74 494 672 Losses and allocated LAE paid (881 ) (1,080 ) (1,034 ) Reserve for losses and allocated LAE at end of period $ 1,619 $ 2,076 $ 2,577 Number of claims paid during period 8,250 16,446 20,963 Number of claims pending at end of period 10,284 15,002 18,945 The following presents a summary of trends we observed within our Health Care operation, by quarter, for the three year period ended December 31, 2003. The discussion focuses on our Medical Malpractice line of business, since 99% of the reserve adjustments related to this business. Our Medical Malpractice business includes all medical liability coverage within our Health Care operation, and comprised approximately 93% of our total Health Care segment reserves at December 31, 2003; the remaining business included in this operation is represented by claims arising out of ancillary business (such as automobile and property coverage for our Medical Malpractice customers). There were no offsetting increases or decreases in reserves of different lines within our Health Care operation. Of the Medical Malpractice reserve adjustments recorded in 2003, approximately 17% related to 2002 incurred losses; approximately 33% to 2001 incurred losses; approximately 23% to 2000 incurred losses; approximately 4% to 1999 incurred losses; and the remainder of 23% to incurred losses in 1998 and prior years. Of the Medical Malpractice reserve adjustments recorded in 2002, approximately 88% related to 75 2001 incurred losses; approximately 50% to 2000 incurred losses; approximately (7)% to 1999 incurred losses; approximately 6% to 1998 incurred losses; and the remainder of (37)% to incurred losses in 1997 and prior years. Of the Medical Malpractice reserve adjustments recorded in 2001, approximately 29% related to 2000 incurred losses; approximately 30% to 1999 incurred losses; approximately 15% to 1998 incurred losses; approximately 10% to 1997 incurred losses; and the remaining 16% to incurred losses in 1996 and prior years. In general, the reserve increases discussed below have primarily resulted from claim payments being greater than anticipated due to the recent escalation of large jury awards, which included substantially higher than expected pain and suffering awards. This affected our view of not only those cases going to trial, but also our view of all cases where settlements are negotiated and the threat of a large jury verdict aids the plaintiff bar in the negotiation process. The recent escalation in claim costs in the periods noted below that resulted from these developments was significantly higher than originally projected trends (which had not forecasted the change in the judicial environment), and has now been considered in our actuarial analysis and the projection of ultimate loss costs. In addition, a portion of the reserve increase in the fourth quarter of 2001 resulted from information obtained from the work of a Health Care Claims Task Force, created during the first half of 2001, which focused resolution efforts on our largest claims with the intent of lowering our ultimate loss costs. The following table summarizes, for each quarter of 2003, 2002 and 2001, our ending net reserves for losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses for our Health Care segment, any prior period reserve strengthening recorded in the quarter (all related to the Medical Malpractice portion of the segment), and the percentage such reserve strengthening represented in relation to beginning of period total loss liability. Ending Reserves Reserve Adjustment* Percent of Prior Quarter Reserves ($ in millions) 2001: 1st quarter $ 2,195 $ 90 4 % 2nd quarter $ 2,195 $ 105 5 % 3rd quarter $ 2,226 $ % 4th quarter $ 2,577 $ 540 24 % 2002: 1st quarter $ 2,439 $ % 2nd quarter $ 2,377 $ 97 4 % 3rd quarter $ 2,291 $ % 4th quarter $ 2,076 $ % 2003: 1st quarter $ 1,863 $ % 2nd quarter $ 1,680 $ % 3rd quarter $ 1,505 $ % 4th quarter $ 1,619 $ 350 23 % * The insurance loss reserving process involves judgment by actuaries and management, including evaluation not only of underlying data, but also of changes in legal, economic and societal factors that are generally not quantifiable. Such application of judgment includes an analysis of trends that develop over time and which make it difficult to directly correlate specific data points (as discussed previously) with a specific reserving decision. 76 2001 In the first quarter, we determined that trends that had begun to appear in the third and fourth quarters of 2000 with respect to the book of business of ACIC were outside of expected trends, resulting in increases to our expected average case reserve outstanding and average paid claims. Within the Fire & Marine book of business, we also observed a continuation of the increase in the average outstanding case reserve levels and in the average paid claims. We believe the principal cause of these increases was the judicial trend noted above. We revised our estimate of ultimate losses and made a reserve addition of $90 million. In the second quarter, we determined that the sharp increases in average paid claims and outstanding case reserve levels during the prior quarters and the second quarter of 2001 indicated a need to increase our actuarial estimate of required reserves (without changing our projected trends) in light of the adverse judicial awards noted above, and we made a reserve addition of $105 million. In the third quarter, while case reserve levels increased, the average paid claims were within an expected level. Certain of our models indicated a need for increased reserves, while other methods, including the results of stress testing the underlying assumptions (primarily the level of case reserves and paid activity), indicated that reserves were appropriate in total for our Health Care segment. Management considered all available information and determined that reserves were appropriate as of September 30, 2001. In the fourth quarter of 2001, we revised certain actuarial assumptions based on the adverse trends observed in the prior three quarters. Average case reserve levels increased significantly due to our efforts to identify cases that could be expected to have a significant impact and manage them to closure more actively. Based on the evolving trends we had observed emerging in prior quarters, as well as escalating claim payments observed in the fourth quarter of 2001, we concluded that average payments were not only at a new sustained and higher level, but that they could also increase beyond those average payments, and or at a rate faster than inflation. We thus concluded it was appropriate at that time to change the actuarial assumptions we had been using in our development pattern to consider higher loss severities and a faster rate of growth for losses. Specifically, during the fourth quarter of 2001, we adjusted our assumptions with respect to the expected ultimate incurred and paid losses at each 12 month period from the reported loss date. These assumptions increased the expected ultimate incurred loss from a 2% increase over our estimated incurred at 108 months following the reported date, to a 24% increase over estimated incurred at 12 months following the reported date. Similarly, we increased our expected ultimate paid loss assumption from a 3% increase over our paid losses at 108 months following the reported date to a 46% increase over our assumption of the paid losses at 12 months following the reported date. After careful analysis and determination of development patterns and the resulting revision of our actuarial assumptions described above, a charge to reserves of $540 million was determined to be necessary and was recorded during the fourth quarter of 2001. 2002 Following the cumulative prior year reserve charges of $735 million in 2001, activity in the first quarter of 2002 developed according to projections. Average paid claims for the full year of 2001 for medical malpractice lines had been $117,000, including a fourth quarter average of $124,000. The phrase average paid claims as used herein excludes claims which were settled or closed for which no loss or loss expense was paid. In the first quarter of 2002, the average paid loss was down to $111,000. We interpreted this as a positive sign that prior year reserve charges up to this point had been adequate. The average outstanding case reserve increased slightly from $141,000 in the fourth quarter of 2001 to $144,000 in the first quarter of 2002, but this was interpreted as a relatively benign change, given inflation and the promising decrease in average payment amounts. No additional reserve action was taken. In the second quarter of 2002, average paid claims for medical malpractice lines were again somewhat above expectations, rising to $130,000 for the quarter. This, coupled with an additional increase in the 77 average outstanding case reserve to $148,000, prompted management to reflect these new increased averages in its reserve analysis and record a reserve increase of $97 million. Throughout 2002, we initiated significant changes to our Health Care claims organization and resolution process. During the third quarter of 2002, we began to see the results of executing this strategy. Specifically, case loads per adjuster had begun to decline substantially and the process for providing oversight on high exposure cases had been streamlined, enabling a more expeditious approach to our handling of these medical malpractice claims including the establishment of stronger case reserves. We also added staff with expertise in high exposure litigation management to assist claim handlers in aggressively pursuing appropriate resolutions on a file by file basis. This allowed us to establish more effective resolution strategies to either resolve claims prior to going to trial or, for those claims deemed as non meritorious, maintain an aggressive defense. We also became more selective in determining which cases are taken to trial and more willing to make use of our right to select defense counsel in those instances that we decide to litigate. This caused our ratio of defense verdicts to plaintiff verdicts to improve over prior years. We began to more effectively manage our claim disposition strategies to limit the number of catastrophic verdicts. We believe that executing this strategy increased our ability to reduce our ultimate indemnity losses. As noted above, as part of our focus on claim resolution, we increased our emphasis on routinely reviewing our case reserves and put in place a process where managers actively review each adjusters entire inventory of pending files to assure, among other things, that case reserves are adequate to support settlement values. In addition, as we moved further into runoff, our mix of paid and outstanding claims changed and we expected that our statistical data would reflect fewer new claims. We expected our claim counts to go down and the average size of our outstanding and paid claims to go up since newly reported claims are often settled at minimal loss or loss expense cost. In the third quarter of 2002, although our average paid claim decreased slightly to $126,000, our average outstanding claim reserve increased to $166,000. We believed that increases in the average outstanding claim reserve was due to both the claim mix and case strengthening as described above and was not unexpected in a runoff environment. Accordingly, we did not record any reserve charge given the favorable effects we anticipate realizing in future ultimate payments. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the average paid claim increased to $153,000 and the average outstanding case reserve increased to $181,000, which we believe was attributable to the previously described observations and was reasonable relative to our expectations. Also during the fourth quarter, we determined that our claim inventory had been reduced considerably and had matured to a level at which we appropriately began to consider other more relevant data and statistics suitable for evaluating reserves in a runoff environment. During 2002, and as described above, we concluded that the impact of settling claims in a runoff environment was causing abnormal effects on our average paid claims, average outstanding claims, and the amount of average case reserves established for new claims all of which are traditional statistics used by our actuaries to develop indicated ranges of expected loss. Taking these changing statistics into account, we developed varying interpretations of our data which implied added uncertainty to our evaluation of these reserves. It is our belief that this data, when appropriately evaluated in light of the impact of our migration to a runoff environment, supports our view that we will realize significant savings on our ultimate claim costs. In the fourth quarter of 2002, we established specific tools and metrics to more explicitly monitor and validate our key assumptions supporting our reserve conclusions since we believe that our traditional statistics and reserving methods needed to be supplemented in order to provide a more meaningful analysis. The tools we developed track the three primary indicators which are influencing our expectations 78 and include: a) newly reported claims, b) reserve development on known claims and c) the redundancy ratio, comparing the cost of resolving claims to the reserve established for that individual claim. Emergence of newly reported claims Our Health Care book of business was put into runoff at the end of 2001 and our outstanding exposure rapidly dropped, as expected. Since the majority of coverage we offered was on a claims made basis, and notification of the claim must be made within the policy period, the potential for unreported claims decreased significantly. We expected that the emergence of newly reported medical malpractice claims, with incurred years of 2002 or prior, would not exceed 40% of our current outstanding case reserve amount. Development on known claims As part of executing our runoff claims strategy, the inventory of claim specific case reserves was reviewed during 2002 in an effort to reserve each claim as appropriately as possible. This effort was in its advanced stages at the end of 2002, and our expectations for additional reserve strengthening on known claims was considered to be minimal. We did not expect additional case development on medical malpractice claims to exceed 3% of existing case reserves. Case redundancy While there were claims settlements which exceeded the claim specific reserve that had been established, on the whole, claims were being settled at a level significantly less than the individual case reserve previously carried. During 2001, the amount of excess reserves above settled amounts as a percentage of previously established reserves (referred to as a redundancy ratio) were in the range of 25% to 30%. By the end of 2002, the redundancy ratio had increased to between 35% and 40%. We expected this ratio to stay within this range to support our best estimate of a reasonable provision for our loss reserves. 2003 In 2003, we evaluated the adequacy of our previously established medical malpractice reserves in the context of the three indicators described above. The dollar amount of newly reported claims in the first quarter totaled $118 million, approximately 25% less than we anticipated in our original estimate of the required level of redundancy at year end 2002. With regard to development on known claims, loss activity in the first quarter of 2003 was within our expectations. Case development on incurred years 2001 and prior was minimal, and case development on the 2002 incurred year totaled $39 million, within our year end 2002 estimate of no more than 3% of development. For the first quarter of 2003, our redundancy ratio was within our expected range of between 35% and 40%. In the second quarter of 2003, the dollar amount of newly reported claims totaled $127 million, approximately 5% higher than we anticipated in our original estimate of the required level of reserves at year end 2002. Nevertheless, through the first half of 2003, the dollar amount of newly reported claims was approximately 12% lower than we anticipated. Loss development on known claims during the second quarter of 2003 was negative, but not as negative as we anticipated. Our actual redundancy ratio continued to improve in the second quarter of 2003; however, since newly reported claims and loss development on known claims did not improve as much as we expected in the second quarter, the required reserve redundancy had increased modestly from the previously estimated range of 35% to 40%. In the third quarter of 2003, the dollar amount of newly reported claims totaled $108 million, approximately 10% higher than we anticipated in our original estimate of the required level of reserves at year end 2002. However, through the first nine months of 2003, the dollar amount of newly reported claims was approximately 7% lower than we anticipated due to the positive variance in the first quarter. Loss development on known claims during the third quarter of 2003 was worse than anticipated. Our actual redundancy ratio continued to improve in the third quarter of 2003; however, since newly reported claims and loss development on known claims again did not improve as much as we expected in the third quarter, the required reserve redundancy had increased from the previously estimated range of 35% to 40% to approximately 45%. 79 In the fourth quarter of 2003, the dollar amount of newly reported claims totaled $65 million, approximately 24% better than we anticipated in our original estimate of the required level of reserves at year end 2002. The dollar amount of newly reported claims for the year ended December 31, 2003 was approximately 10% better than our original expectation. We consider the assumptions we made at the end of 2002 for newly reported claims to be appropriate and we have made no changes to those assumptions. Loss development on known claims during the fourth quarter of 2003 was only slightly worse than anticipated. However, through all of 2003, the cumulative development was considerably worse than expected. Through the third quarter, this adverse development on known claims was offset by continued improvement on the actual redundancy ratio experienced and no adjustment had been needed. However, our actual redundancy ratio, which had continually improved during the first nine months of 2003, took an adverse turn during November and December, causing the required reserve redundancy to increase above our level of tolerance. The view that the redundancy ratio would not only fail to continue to improve, but could likely decay over time caused us to make an adjustment to the reserve levels. The new required redundancy ratio, after the $350 million of reserve strengthening recorded in the fourth quarter, is in the range of 30% to 35%. The three indicators described above are related such that if one deteriorates, additional improvement on another is necessary for us to conclude that further reserve strengthening is not necessary. The results of these indicators support our current view that we have recorded a reasonable provision for our medical malpractice exposures as of December 31, 2003 and our analysis continues to support our belief that we will realize favorable effects in our ultimate costs and that our current loss reserves will prove to be a reasonable provision. Reinsurance In the years prior to 2002, our Reinsurance segment (St. Paul Re) generally underwrote treaty and facultative reinsurance for property, liability, ocean marine, surety, certain specialty classes of coverage, and nontraditional reinsurance, which provided limited traditional underwriting risk protection combined with financial risk protection. In late 2001, we announced our intention to cease underwriting certain types of reinsurance coverages and narrow our geographic presence in 2002, as described in more detail earlier in this discussion. As a result, in January 2002, St. Paul Re began focusing almost exclusively on the following types of reinsurance coverage: property catastrophe, excess of loss casualty, marine and traditional finite. St. Paul Re conducted its business through four business centers: North American Casualty, North American Property, International and Finite Risk. As discussed in more detail earlier in this report, in November 2002, we transferred our ongoing reinsurance operations to Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd. (Platinum) while retaining liabilities generally for reinsurance contracts incepting prior to January 1, 2002. Reported results for our Reinsurance operation in 2003 represent premium adjustments and loss development on reinsurance business underwritten prior to the transfer of business to Platinum. Reported results for 2002 include those elements, as well as activity from the period January 1, 2002 up to the date of transfer to Platinum. 2003 The underwriting profit of $3 million in 2003 was driven by $8 million of favorable development on prior year loss reserves related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. Results in 2003 also included a $6 million underwriting loss related to the transfer of additional assets and reserves to Platinum pursuant to an adjustment mechanism as described in more detail earlier in this report. 2002 vs. 2001 The significant decline in written premium volume in 2002 compared with 2001 was primarily due to reduced volume from the lines of business targeted for exit at the end of 2001. Also contributing to the decline in premium volume in 2002 was the rescission of several large reinsurance contracts, which reduced written premiums by $137 million. In addition, St. Paul Re ceded written premiums of $158 million in the fourth quarter related to the transfer of business to Platinum, representing unearned premiums as of the date of transfer on business incepting subsequent to January 1, 2002. These 80 reductions in premiums were partially offset by significant price increases on the narrowed lines of business underwritten in 2002 prior to the transfer to Platinum, and new business in the accident and health reinsurance market. St. Paul Res underwriting loss of $22 million in 2002 included a $40 million detriment from aggregate excess of loss reinsurance treaties, primarily related to the commutation of a portion of one aggregate excess of loss reinsurance treaty that was exclusive to our reinsurance operations. The 2002 result also included $23 million of losses related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack, which were partially offset by favorable loss experience on business underwritten in 2002, driven by significant price increases and benefits derived from exiting unprofitable lines of business. Catastrophe and other weather related losses in 2002 totaled $31 million, comprised primarily of losses associated with flooding in Europe in August. The underwriting loss of $726 million in 2001 was dominated by $556 million of losses related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. Other catastrophe and weather related losses of $66 million in 2001 were driven by losses from the explosion of a chemical plant in France and tropical storm Allison in the United States. The remainder of underwriting losses in 2001 were concentrated in North American casualty and property reinsurance business. Other Runoff This category includes the results of the following international insurance operations: 1) our runoff operations at Lloyds, primarily consisting of the following lines of business written through four syndicates, across which our ownership ranged from 54% to 100% and which ceased underwriting in 2001 or the first quarter of 2002: casualty insurance and reinsurance, non marine reinsurance, professional liability insurance (particularly for financial customers, and directors and officers liability insurance) and our participation in the insuring of the Lloyds Central Fund; 2) Unionamerica, the London based underwriting unit acquired as part of our purchase of MMI in 2000. Unionamerica underwrote liability and property coverages, including medical malpractice and other professional liability and directors and officers liability, both inside and outside of Lloyds, on both an insurance and excess of loss reinsurance basis; 3) all other international runoff lines of business we decided to exit at the end of 2001, consisting of health care business in the United Kingdom, Canada and Ireland, as well as our underwriting operations in Germany, France, the Netherlands, Argentina, Mexico (excluding surety business), Spain, Australia, New Zealand, Botswana and South Africa. (In 2003, we sold our operations in Botswana, and in 2002, we sold our operations in Argentina, Mexico and Spain); and 4) the results of our participation in voluntary insurance pools, as well as loss development on business underwritten prior to 1980 (prior to 1988 for business acquired in our merger with USF&G Corporation in 1998). We have a management team in place for the operations comprising this category to ensure that our outstanding claim obligations are settled in an expeditious and economical manner. 2003 vs. 2002 Despite placing all of the operations in this category in runoff at the beginning of 2002, we continue to underwrite business in selected markets while we attempt to sell certain of those operations, accounting for the $60 million of premium volume in 2003. The $374 million underwriting loss included $285 million in provisions to strengthen prior year loss reserves and $89 million of current year losses and underwriting expenses. Lloyds accounted for $159 million of the underwriting loss in 2003, driven by $108 million of adverse loss development on business written in prior years and poor current year results from North American liability business, and financial and professional business, as well as an increase in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. (The elimination of the one quarter reporting lag for our operations at Lloyds accounted for $48 million of our reported underwriting loss for Lloyds in this category in 2003). Unionamericas underwriting loss in 2003 of $104 million included $67 million of adverse prior year loss development and a $21 million increase in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, with the remainder reflecting current year losses related to strengthened loss assumptions on contracts still in effect in 2003. 81 These current year losses are centered in three lines of business underwritten through the Lloyds market that are now managed by Unionamerica: insurance of non U.S. medical malpractice, excess of loss reinsurance of directors and officers liability business, and U.S. surplus lines business. All other international runoff lines of business accounted for $58 million of underwriting losses in 2003, compared with $56 million of losses in 2002. The underwriting loss on domestic lines underwritten prior to 1980 (prior to 1988 for business acquired in our merger with USF&G Corporation in 1998) was $53 million, the majority of which was comprised of $46 million of adverse prior year development primarily attributable to an increase in asbestos reserves during the fourth quarter of 2003. Adverse prior year reserve development of $43 million in our other international lines occurred throughout the year in various lines of business and in various increments. The following table summarizes prior year reserve charges in 2003 by line of business or operation. 2003 Line of business or operation: Beginning Reserve Reserve Charge (In millions) Lloyds: Financial Institutions and Professional $ 109 $ 31 North American and Other Casualty 221 57 Other Lloyds runoff lines 166 20 Subtotal Lloyds 496 108 Unionamerica 304 88 Other international lines 346 43 Other domestic lines 1,560 46 Total $ 2,706 $ 285 Business underwritten through our Lloyds syndicates, including the majority of Unionamericas business, is done in a subscription market, in which parties participate in portions of policies and or groups of policies. As a result, the concepts of claim frequency and claim size trend for specific syndicates and or shares of syndicates are neither available nor pertinent. 2002 vs. 2001 The significant decline in written premium volume in 2002 reflected the impact of our decision to place these businesses in runoff. International runoff lines of business accounted for $110 million of written premium volume in 2002, down 54% from $240 million in 2001. We continued to underwrite business in selected markets while we attempted to sell certain of our operations. Our Lloyds runoff premium totaled $114 million in 2002, compared with $253 million in 2001. Unionamerica syndicate premium volume totaled $18 million in 2002, down significantly from 2001 premiums of $99 million. Lloyds accounted for $99 million of the underwriting loss in 2002, driven by adverse loss development on business written in prior years and poor current year results from North American liability and reinsurance business. Unionamericas underwriting loss in 2002 of $60 million included $27 million of adverse prior year loss development, with the remainder reflecting current year losses related to strengthened loss assumptions related to contracts still in effect in 2002. These losses are centered in three lines of business underwritten through Lloyds syndicates that are now managed by Unionamerica: excess of loss reinsurance on U.S. medical malpractice, directors and officers liability business, and U.S. surplus lines business. All other international runoff lines of business accounted for $56 million of underwriting losses in 2002, compared with $94 million of losses in 2001. Losses in 2002 were centered in the Netherlands and Spain, whereas in 2001 losses were concentrated in health care business and construction coverages offered in the United Kingdom. The decline in these other international runoff losses in 2002 reflected the impact of our decision to withdraw from those markets. 82 The following table summarizes prior year reserve charges in 2002 by line of business or operation. 2002 Line of business or operation: Beginning Reserve Reserve Charge (In millions) Lloyds: Financial Institutions and Professional $ 78 $ 46 North American and Other Casualty 154 75 Other Lloyds runoff lines 239 14 Subtotal Lloyds 471 135 Unionamerica 445 27 Other international lines 333 6 Total $ 1,249 $ 168 PROPERTY LIABILITY INSURANCE Investment Operations The following table summarizes the composition and carrying value of our property liability investment segments portfolio at the end of 2003 and 2002. More information on each investment class follows the table. December 31 2003 2002 (In millions) Fixed income securities $ 16,447 $ 17,135 Real estate and mortgage loans 838 873 Venture capital 535 581 Equities 122 355 Securities on loan 1,584 806 Short term investments 2,513 2,070 Other investments 760 657 Total investments $ 22,799 $ 22,477 FIXED INCOME SECURITIES Our portfolio of fixed income investments is primarily composed of high quality, intermediate term taxable U.S. government, corporate and mortgage backed bonds, and tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds. We manage this portfolio conservatively, investing almost exclusively in investment grade securities. At December 31, 2003, approximately 96% of our fixed income portfolio, comprised of our fixed income securities, the securities on loan and short term investments, was rated investment grade. Approximately 3% consisted of non investment grade securities and 1% were non rated securities. We participate in a securities lending program whereby certain fixed income securities from our portfolio are loaned to other institutions for short periods of time. We receive a fee from the borrower in return. We require collateral equal to 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities, and we record the cash collateral received as a liability. The collateral is invested in short term investments and reported as such on our balance sheet. The carrying value of the securities on loan is removed from fixed income securities on the balance sheet and shown as a separate investment asset. We continue to earn interest on the securities on loan, and earn a portion of the interest related to the short term investments. At the end of 2003, the reported amortized cost of our fixed income portfolio was $15.6 billion, compared with $16.1 billion at the end of 2002. The decline was primarily due to our increased 83 participation in the securities lending program described above and the resulting reclassification of those securities to a separate balance sheet caption. We carry these securities on our balance sheet at fair value, with the appreciation or depreciation recorded in shareholders equity, net of taxes. The fair values of our bonds fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, changes in yield differentials between fixed income asset classes and changes in the perceived creditworthiness of corporate obligors. At the end of 2003, the pretax unrealized appreciation of our fixed income portfolio was $862 million, compared with unrealized appreciation of $1.0 billion at the end of 2002, with the decline due to higher market interest rates in 2003. The 10 year U.S. Treasury yield rose 43 basis points during 2003. In 2002, by contrast, that same U.S. Treasury yield declined by 123 basis points, causing a significant increase in the unrealized appreciation of the portfolio over year end 2001. Our decision whether to purchase taxable or tax exempt securities is driven by corporate tax considerations, and the relationship between taxable and tax exempt yields at the time of purchase. In recent years, the availability of corporate Net Operating Loss carryforwards and Alternative Minimum Tax carryforwards has increased our ability to benefit from taxable investment income. Accordingly, a significant majority of our new fixed income purchases in recent years have consisted of taxable bonds. The average yield on taxable bonds purchased in 2003 was 4.5%, compared with 5.3% in 2002 and 6.5% in 2001. The decline of these average investment yields in both 2003 and 2002 reflected the impact of the Federal Reserve rate actions and general economic weakness. Taxable bonds accounted for 77% of our fixed income portfolio at year end 2003, compared with 75% at the end of 2002. The bond portfolio in total carried a weighted average pretax yield of 5.7% at December 31, 2003, compared with 6.2% at the end of 2002. Pretax investment income generated by our fixed income securities, securities on loan and short term investments in 2003 totaled $1.02 billion, down 7% from 2002 investment income of $1.09 billion. Our investment income in 2003 was negatively impacted by yields on new investments purchased during the last several years, which were significantly lower than yields on investments that matured in those years. In addition, significant loss and loss adjustment expense payments, including payments related to our runoff operations and the $747 million Western MacArthur asbestos settlement payment, prevented significant growth in our invested asset base during 2003. In 2002, pretax investment income from fixed income investments was 1% below 2001 income of $1.11 billion. The effect of the decline in yields available on new investments in 2002 was substantially offset by an increase in funds invested, largely due to the capital infusion and sales of equity investments. Additional information regarding our fixed income portfolio is disclosed in the Critical Accounting Policies section of this discussion. REAL ESTATE AND MORTGAGE LOANS Real estate ($775 million) and mortgage loans ($63 million) accounted for 4% of our total property liability investments at the end of 2003. Our real estate holdings primarily consist of commercial office and warehouse properties that we own directly or in which we have a partial interest through joint ventures. Our properties are geographically distributed throughout the United States and had an occupancy rate of 89.7% at year end 2003, compared with 89.9% in 2002. Real estate investments produced pretax investment income of $61 million in 2003, compared with $67 million in 2002. Our real estate investment cash flows of $106 million in 2003 were slightly higher than cash flows of $105 million in 2002. These cash flows equated to cash yields of 10.8% and 10.4% for 2003 and 2002, respectively. We made no significant real estate purchases in 2003 or 2002. We acquired our portfolio of mortgage loans in the 1998 merger with USF&G. The loans, which are collateralized by income producing real estate, produced investment income of $6 million in 2003 and $10 million in 2002. Net pay downs and repayments of the loans totaled $19 million in 2003 and $52 million in 2002. We did not originate any new loans in either of the last two years. 84 VENTURE CAPITAL Venture capital comprised 2% of our property liability invested assets (at cost) at the end of 2003. These private investments span a variety of industries but are concentrated in telecommunications, information technology, health care and consumer products. In 2003, we invested $134 million in this asset class, compared with $138 million in 2002. Our total return on average net venture capital investments (encompassing dividend income, realized gains and losses, and the change in unrealized appreciation) was 12.3% in 2003, (41.0%) in 2002 and (41.5%) in 2001. The positive return in 2003 was driven by net pretax realized investment gains of $51 million, the components of which are described in more detail below. Venture capital returns in 2002 and 2001 were negatively impacted by significant declines in the unrealized appreciation of our investments. Additionally in 2002, losses from investments sales and impairment write downs were significant, as described in more detail below. The carrying value of the venture capital portfolio at year end 2003 and 2002 included unrealized appreciation of $24 million and $4 million, respectively. At December 31, 2003, we had long term commitments to fund venture capital investments totaling $792 million which are subject to certain termination provisions as further described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. EQUITIES Our equity holdings consist of a diversified portfolio of public common stock, comprising less than 1% of total property liability investments (at cost) at year end 2003. In mid 2002, we began to reduce our level of equity investments. Our decision was prompted by several factors, including our opinion as to the near term direction of equity prices, a comprehensive evaluation of our aggregate equity exposure (including venture capital and equities held by our pension fund), and our opinion as to the level of public equity investments that is appropriate for publicly held insurance companies. By the end of 2003, we had reduced our equity investments by $953 million (at cost) since year end 2001. The total return on our combined domestic and international equity portfolio was 32% in 2003, compared with (19.4%) in 2002 and (20.7%) in 2001. At the end of 2003, the market value of our remaining portfolio of $105 million exceeded its cost by $17 million. By comparison, at the end of 2002, the $375 million cost of our equity holdings exceeded its market value by $20 million. OTHER INVESTMENTS Our 14% equity ownership stake in Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., with a carrying value of $146 million and $129 million, at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, is included in this category, as is a long term interest bearing security from a highly rated entity, supporting a series of insurance transactions, with a carrying value of $359 million and $386 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The carrying value of this security is expected to continue to decline in proportion to the reduction in the amount of insurance which it supports. Also included in Other Investments are our warrants to purchase additional Platinum shares, which are carried at their market value ($65 million and $61 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively). REALIZED INVESTMENT GAINS AND LOSSES The following table summarizes our property liability operations pretax realized gains and losses by investment class for each of the last three years. Years Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 (In millions) Fixed income $ 7 $ 94 $ (77 ) Equities 40 (58 ) (4 ) Real estate and mortgage loans 4 2 4 Venture capital 51 (200 ) (43 ) Other investments (4 ) 42 50 Subtotal 98 (120 ) (70 ) Investment expenses (39 ) (42 ) (56 ) Net pretax gains (losses) $ 59 $ (162 ) $ (126 ) 85 2003. During 2003, we sold fixed income securities with a cumulative amortized cost of $940 million, generating gross pretax gains of $39 million. These gains were partially offset by impairment write downs totaling $17 million, including $9 million related to asset/mortgage backed securities and $4 million related to Healthsouth Corporation. We recorded additional impairment write downs totaling $4 million in our fixed income portfolio during 2003 related to nine other issuers. Each of these write downs was carried out by writing our stated book value down to our estimate of net realizable value. We continued to reduce our equity investment holdings in 2003, and sales of those investments in a rebounding market environment resulted in net pretax gains of $40 million for the year. Impairment write downs in our equity portfolio totaled $6 million in 2003. In our venture capital portfolio, the sale of a large portion of one of our investment holdings generated a pretax gain of $171 million in 2003, which was largely offset by impairment realized losses totaling $143 million related to 38 of our investment holdings. Fourteen of those holdings were impaired due to a merger or sale at a value less than our cost. Eleven holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by gross margins being less than expected, product pricing not meeting initial projections due to market conditions, and greater than expected manufacturing expenses). Six holdings were written down because the entities progress was substantially less than planned and additional financing was required at values less than our cost. An additional six holdings were impaired due to cessation of operations of the entity. Finally, one holding was impaired because market demand for its product was less than expected. 2002. During 2002, we sold fixed income securities with a cumulative amortized cost of $2.5 billion, generating gross pretax gains of $185 million. These gains were partially offset by impairment write downs totaling $74 million, including $15 million related to our investment in debt securities issued by WorldCom Corporation, $13 million related to TXU Eastern Funding and $10 million related to NRG Energy. We recorded additional impairment write downs totaling $36 million in our fixed income portfolio during 2002 related to 22 other issuers. Those write downs resulted from bankruptcy filings or substantial deterioration in the financial condition of those issuers. Realized losses from our equity portfolio in 2002 primarily consisted of those resulting from sales following the strategic decision to re allocate funds to the fixed maturity portfolio, and impairment write downs totaling $26 million. In our venture capital portfolio, realized losses in 2002 included $56 million of losses resulting from the sale of the majority of our partnership investment holdings, and impairment write downs in 25 of our holdings totaling $122 million. These holdings were impaired for the same general reasons noted above for the 2003 impairments: seven holdings were impaired because market demand for their products was less than expected; seven holdings were written down because the entities progress was less than planned and additional financing would be required; five holdings were impaired due to fundamental economic deterioration (as defined above); four holdings were impaired due to a merger or sale at less than our cost; and two holdings were impaired due to cessation of operations. 2001. Pretax realized losses in the fixed income category in 2001 were driven by write downs in the carrying value of certain of our bond holdings, including a $20 million write down of various Argentina government and corporate bonds following economic upheaval in that country, and a $19 million write down in debt securities issued by Enron Corporation following that companys bankruptcy filing. We recorded additional impairment write downs totaling $38 million in our fixed income portfolio during 2001 related to 19 other issuers. We did not record any impairment write downs in our equity portfolio in 2001. Realized losses in our venture capital portfolio primarily resulted from impairment write downs, which in the aggregate 86 totaled $88 million, related to 31 of our direct venture capital investments. These holdings were impaired for the same reasons described above for 2003 and 2002. For publicly traded securities in our venture capital portfolio in each year, the amounts of write downs were determined by writing our investments down to quoted market prices. For non publicly traded securities, the write downs to estimated net realizable value were reviewed and approved by our internal valuation committee, which, on a quarterly basis, evaluates recent financings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth, and other business and sector fundamentals in determining fair values of the specific investments. On an ongoing basis, our venture capital portfolio managers monitor the activities of both our publicly traded and non publicly traded securities, keeping in mind developments that might give rise to necessary valuation adjustments. These managers may report any such developments to the internal valuation committee. A significant amount of additional information regarding procedures employed to evaluate other than temporary impairments in the carrying value of any of our investments is contained in the Critical Accounting Policies section of this discussion. PROPERTY LIABILITY UNDERWRITING LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE RESERVES Our loss reserves reflect estimates of total losses and loss adjustment expenses we will ultimately have to pay under insurance policies, surety bonds and reinsurance agreements. These include losses that have been reported but not settled, and losses that have been incurred but not yet reported to us (IBNR). Loss reserves for certain workers compensation business and certain assumed reinsurance contracts are discounted to present value. We reduce our loss reserves for estimates of salvage and subrogation. For reported losses, we establish reserves on a case basis within the parameters of coverage provided in the insurance policy, surety bond or reinsurance agreement. For IBNR losses, we estimate reserves using established actuarial methods. Our case and IBNR reserve estimates consider such variables as past loss experience, changes in legislative conditions, changes in judicial interpretation of legal liability and policy coverages, and inflation. We consider not only monetary increases in the cost of what we insure, but also changes in societal factors that influence jury verdicts and case law and, in turn, claim costs. Because many of the coverages we offer involve claims that may not ultimately be settled for many years after they are incurred, subjective judgments as to our ultimate exposure to losses are an integral and necessary component of our loss reserving process. We record our reserves by considering a range of estimates bounded by a high and low point. Within that range, we record our best estimate. We continually review our reserves, using a variety of statistical and actuarial techniques to analyze current claim costs, frequency and severity data, and prevailing economic, social and legal factors. We adjust reserves established in prior years as loss experience develops and new information becomes available. Adjustments to previously estimated reserves are reflected in our financial results in the periods in which they are made. While our reported reserves make a reasonable provision for all of our unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense obligations, it is important to note that the process of estimating required reserves does, by its very nature, involve uncertainty. The level of uncertainty can be influenced by such factors as the existence of long tail coverage forms and changes in claim handling practices. Many of our insurance subsidiaries have written long tail coverages such as medical professional liability, large deductible workers compensation and assumed reinsurance. In addition, claim handling practices change and evolve over the years. For example, new initiatives are commenced, claim offices are reorganized and relocated, claim handling responsibilities of individual adjusters are changed, use of a call center is increased, use of technology is increased, caseload issues and case reserving practices are monitored more frequently, etc. 87 However, these are sources of uncertainty that we have recognized and for which we have appropriately reserved. The following table summarizes the composition of our gross and net loss and loss adjustment expense reserves by major product line as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. Our loss and LAE reserves related to our foreign operations are presented in total in the table, as those operations do not classify their business using the same product line definitions as our domestic operations. 2003 2002 Gross Net Gross Net (In millions) Other liability $ 4,181 $ 3,119 $ 3,748 $ 2,667 Workers compensation 3,203 2,090 2,895 1,927 Medical malpractice 1,788 1,433 2,321 1,733 Commercial auto liability 1,533 1,014 1,382 978 Reinsurance nonproportional assumed liability 1,505 952 2,007 1,484 Products liability 905 737 1,552 1,133 Commercial multiple peril 656 520 927 630 Reinsurance nonproportional assumed property 406 316 797 723 Other 2,118 1,156 2,144 905 Total loss and LAE reserves domestic operations 16,295 11,337 17,773 12,180 Retroactive reinsurance (118 ) (152 ) Loss and LAE reserves foreign operations 3,131 2,056 4,853 2,821 Total loss and LAE reserves $ 19,426 $ 13,275 $ 22,626 $ 14,849 Analysis of Our Long Tail Exposures We consider long tail exposures to include those lines of business in which the majority of coverage involves average loss payment lags of three years or more beyond the expiration of the policy and, accordingly, can cause an increased level of uncertainty in estimating loss reserves. The primary lines of our business fitting those criteria are general liability, workers compensation, and casualty excess reinsurance. For the medical malpractice business we underwrote prior to our exit from that line of business, reserves do not exceed a three year average life, but do involve a high degree of uncertainty. We analyze these reserves in accordance with our accounting policy as further described in the Critical Accounting Policies section of this discussion. 88 The following table provides additional statistics on our long tail and medical malpractice exposures and is followed by discussion on known trends, events, or uncertainties that may affect our future results of operations or financial condition. We also further describe the nature of the underlying claims, including relevant information of the claimant population. For our general liability and workers compensation lines of business, we have reported separately our exposures to possible environmental and asbestos (E&A) obligations. For our non E&A general liability, workers compensation, and medical malpractice coverages, we have included data only for our primary domestic insurance operations, excluding alternative risk transfer insurance products. The coverages in the table represented approximately 65% of our total net loss and loss adjustment expense reserves at December 31, 2003. Number of Claims / Supplements(1) $ in millions Line of Business Pending as of Dec. 31 Reported Dismissed Settled, orResolved Paid Losses onSettled Claims Costs to Administer Losses Paid on Pools andRelated General Liability Non E & A 2003 37,732 58,752 59,237 $ 513 $ 293 N/A 2002 38,217 68,807 70,802 $ 643 $ 263 N/A 2001 40,212 70,540 68,384 $ 526 $ 234 N/A Workers Compensation 2003 33,720 40,916 42,927 $ 368 $ 59 N/A 2002 35,731 51,604 54,300 $ 381 $ 57 N/A 2001 38,427 56,084 55,368 $ 374 $ 57 N/A Medical Malpractice 2003 9,432 4,284 7,714 $ 687 $ 166 N/A 2002 12,862 8,271 10,635 $ 831 $ 190 N/A 2001 15,226 18,706 18,897 $ 834 $ 206 N/A Environmental(2) 2003 1,226 471 520 $ 47 $ 14 $ 11 2002 1,275 449 633 $ 34 $ 15 $ 9 2001 1,459 390 1,317 $ 34 $ 11 $ 14 Asbestos(2) 2003 4,464 1,892 1,351 $ 516 $ 19 $ 13 2002 3,923 1,757 1,093 $ 187 $ 31 $ 14 2001 3,259 1,096 929 $ 13 $ 22 $ 10 Assumed Reinsurance(3) 2003 N/A N/A N/A $ 905 $ 44 N/A 2002 N/A N/A N/A $ 1,150 $ 44 N/A 2001 N/A N/A N/A $ 825 $ 29 N/A (1) The claim counts included in this table represent counts of supplements, which are extracted from our actuarial databases. A claim supplement is the finest level of detail recorded in our statistical systems. For example, two claimants for a single general liability bodily injury occurrence would be counted as two separate supplements. Our claim department manages claims on a policyholder basis, while the data in this table is presented on a claim count basis. For environmental and asbestos claims, a claim supplement count does not reflect the number of claimants involved on the account. For asbestos claims, supplements are generally created based on the number of policy years potentially implicated on the account. For environmental claims, supplements are generally created to track the number of sites involved on the account. (2) The environmental and asbestos claim count information includes only losses on direct written business whereas the paid loss data on assumed business, presented separately, includes loss and 89 defense and cost containment expenses. Claim count data is not shown on losses assumed from other companies and or insurance pools because we are often either covering a very small portion of any one claim, or a number of claims which are compiled together as one for reporting purposes and, therefore, such statistics would not be meaningful. Also, the costs to administer these claims do not include adjusting and other related payments. (3) Includes property and casualty loss experience since casualty only is not available. Also, claim counts are not available on assumed reinsurance. Loss settlement amounts include defense and cost containment expenses whereas costs to administer include only adjusting and other related payments. General Liability (Non E&A) Includes insurance coverage protecting the insured against legal liability resulting from negligence, carelessness, or failure to act causing property damage or personal injury to others. Claims on these coverages are usually paid to third party claimants. While we offer coverage that may result in low frequency, high severity claims (i.e. excess umbrella, large accounts), the majority of the non E&A general liability business is generally stable and predictable due to the volume of business written. Although the cost of administering these claims comprises a large portion of the overall claim cost, the actual average loss payment per claim is generally low. The most significant risk for this line is unexpected increases in inflation, either economic or social. The number of newly reported claims continued to decline in 2003 driven by an underlying decrease in our exposure to loss. Premiums have increased in the last several years due to pricing, but the actual number of exposures insured has dropped. Paid losses and closed claims declined in 2003 due to a decrease in reported claims in recent years. The increase in paid dollars in 2002 was the result of closing more claims in 2002 than we did in 2001. Workers Compensation Includes insurance which covers an employers liability for injuries, disability or death to persons in their employment, without regard to fault. The coverage provided under the workers compensation policies is based on state specific schedules for wage replacement and medical payments for injured workers. While the largest portion of the workers insured under our policies generate a very low severity body of claims, a portion of our premium volume is generated in our Construction business center, where there is an increased possibility of permanent and total disability requiring lifetime payments. Although each state government can make changes in coverage, the changes happen after considerable public deliberation and very seldom will impact policies that have been sold in the past. The number of newly reported claims continued to decline in 2003, driven by an underlying decrease in our exposure to loss. Premiums have increased in the last several years due to pricing, but the actual number of exposures insured has dropped. The number of claims closed in 2003 declined due to a steadily decreasing number of reported claims in recent years. We closed roughly as many claims in 2002 as in 2001, driving the number of pending claims down. Medical Malpractice Includes insurance protecting a licensed health care provider or health care facility against legal liability resulting from death or injury of any person due to the insureds misconduct, negligence, or incompetence in rendering professional services. Medical malpractice claims are volatile in nature. While a large number are closed without a loss payment, those with payments may be very large depending on the circumstances and judicial climate. Significant cost is expended in the settlement of these claims, often with favorable outcomes. Since this book of business is in runoff, the pending inventory is decreasing and will begin to distort some of the statistics. As the runoff matures, there will be fewer small claims and fewer meritless claims that can be quickly dismissed. The single largest risk in this line of business is associated with social trends in jury verdicts which is described in further detail in our Health Care segment discussion in this report. As reported in the Health Care discussion referenced above, newly reported claim counts are dropping quickly as we exit this business segment. As we execute our runoff strategy, we will continue to see a drop in the inventory of pending claims. The unusually high number of claims reported and dismissed, settled or resolved in 2001 in the foregoing table was due to the impact of the MMI integration. 90 Environmental This exposure relates to general liability coverage on policies which may be interpreted to cover environmental related exposures. The information presented above represents business reported as Not underwritten Environmental losses as described in the following section of this report. Payment totals for these coverages are driven by a few very large claims, accompanied by a large number of very small claims. While the number of new reported claims appears to increase, they are primarily matters for which there is no expectation of claim payment, or for policies that have not been identified as cases where the underwriter intended coverage. A significant portion of the cost of administering these claims relates to claims that are eventually settled without payment. Changes in social, judicial, legislative and economic conditions could result in future unforeseen developments and require reserve adjustments. Asbestos This exposure relates to general liability and workers compensation coverages on policies which can be interpreted to cover asbestos related exposures. This portion of business is defined as that which is reported as Asbestos losses as described in more detail in the following section of this report. Amounts are driven by a few very large claims, accompanied by a large number of very small claims or claims made with no payment. A significant portion of the cost of administering the claims is spent on those claims that are eventually settled without payment. Social, judicial, legislative and economic changes could result in future unforeseen developments and require reserve adjustments. Western MacArthur accounted for the majority of paid losses on settled claims in 2003 ($453 million) and 2002 ($173 million), as well as the majority of costs to administer in 2002 ($12 million), with the remainder relating to claims made in prior years. Approximately 32% and 25% of the pending general liability asbestos claim supplements as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, came from policyholders who tendered their first asbestos claim within three years of those respective dates. The increase in newly reported claims arise from policyholders who tendered their first claim to us within the last three years. For example, approximately 73% of the general liability claim supplements reported during 2003 came from policyholders who tendered their first claim after January 1, 2001. These claims are generally relatively small and have, to date, presented minimal exposure. Assumed Reinsurance This portion of our business represents our reported Reinsurance segment and includes property and liability loss exposures assumed on both a proportional and excess of loss basis. There are both low frequency, high severity exposures as well as some event driven high severity exposures. A significant portion of the high exposure business was catastrophe related. As of November 2, 2002, we were no longer significantly exposed to subsequent events due to the transfer of our ongoing reinsurance operations to Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd. Although our property exposure (included in this data) is not considered long tail, our casualty exposure is considered long tail and similar to our primary general liability exposures is sensitive to the risk of unexpected increases in inflation. The larger loss settlement amounts from 2001 through 2003 were primarily due to losses resulting from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. Prior Year Loss Development Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements includes a reconciliation of our beginning and ending loss and loss adjustment expense reserves for each of the years 2003, 2002 and 2001. That reconciliation shows that we recorded an increase in the loss provision from continuing operations for claims incurred in prior years totaling $646 million in 2003, $1.0 billion in 2002 and $577 million in 2001. Our runoff Health Care operation accounted for $350 million of the total 2003 prior year provision, and our Other runoff operations accounted for $285 million of the prior year provision. We recorded $25 million of favorable prior year loss development in our runoff reinsurance operations. Of the 2002 total, $472 million resulted from the settlement of the Western MacArthur asbestos litigation, as described in more detail earlier in this discussion. The majority of the remaining 2002 prior year development was concentrated in our Health Care, Surety, Construction, and Other operations. The increase in prior year 91 loss provisions in 2001 was driven by additional losses in our Health Care operation. That development in all three years is discussed in detail in the respective segment sections included herein. The following table summarizes the composition of our gross and net loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, and the net unfavorable (favorable) prior year loss development by segment as of December 31, 2003. December 31, 2003 Gross Net Loss Development(1) (In millions) Ongoing operations: Specialty Commercial: Specialty $ 3,902 $ 2,267 $ 5 Surety & Construction 2,051 1,563 37 International and Lloyds 1,720 1,076 24 Total Specialty Commercial 7,673 4,906 66 Commercial Lines 3,296 2,749 (30 ) Total ongoing operations 10,969 7,655 36 Runoff operations: Other: Health Care 1,892 1,540 350 Reinsurance 3,994 2,319 (25 ) Other runoff 2,571 1,761 285 Total Other 8,457 5,620 610 Total Underwriting $ 19,426 $ 13,275 $ 646 (1) Net unfavorable (favorable) prior year loss development during 2003. PROPERTY LIABILITY UNDERWRITING ENVIRONMENTAL AND ASBESTOS CLAIMS We continue to receive claims, including through lawsuits, alleging injury or damage from environmental pollution or seeking payment for the cost to clean up polluted sites. We also receive asbestos injury claims, including through lawsuits, arising out of coverages under general liability policies. Most of these claims arise from policies written many years ago. Significant legal issues, primarily pertaining to the scope of coverage, complicate the determination of our alleged liability for both environmental and asbestos claims. In our opinion, court decisions in certain jurisdictions have tended to broaden insurance coverage for both environmental and asbestos matters beyond the intent of the original insurance policies. Our ultimate liability for environmental claims is difficult to estimate because of these legal issues. Insured parties have submitted claims for losses that in our view are not covered in their respective insurance policies, and the final resolution of these claims may be subject to lengthy litigation, making it difficult to estimate our potential liability. In addition, variables such as the length of time necessary to clean up a polluted site, and controversies surrounding the identity of the responsible party and the degree of remediation deemed necessary, make it difficult to estimate the total cost of an environmental claim. Estimating our ultimate liability for asbestos claims is also very difficult. The primary factors influencing our estimate of the total cost of these claims are case law and a history of prior claim 92 development, both of which continue to evolve and are complicated by aggressive litigation against insurers, including us. Estimating ultimate liability is also complicated by the difficulty of assessing what rights, if any, we may have to seek contribution from other insurers of any policyholder. Late in 2001, we hired a new Executive Vice President of Claims, with extensive experience with environmental and asbestos claims handling and environmental and asbestos reserves, who conducted a summary level review of our environmental and asbestos reserves. As a result of observations made in this review, we undertook more detailed actuarial and claims analyses of environmental reserves. No adjustment to reserves was made in the fourth quarter of 2001, since management did not have a sufficient basis for making an adjustment until such supplemental analyses were completed, and we believed our environmental and asbestos reserves were adequate as of December 31, 2001. Our historical methodology (through first quarter 2002) for reviewing the adequacy of environmental and asbestos reserves utilized a survival ratio metric, which considers ending reserves in relation to calendar year paid losses. When the environmental reserve analyses were completed in the second quarter of 2002, we supplemented our survival ratio diagnostics with the detailed additional analyses referred to above, and concluded that our environmental reserves were redundant by approximately $150 million. Based on our additional analyses, we released approximately $150 million of environmental reserves in the second quarter of 2002. Had we continued to rely solely on our analysis of survival ratio, we would have recorded no adjustment to our environmental reserves through the six months ended June 30, 2002. In the second quarter of 2002, we also supplemented our survival ratio analysis of asbestos reserves with a detailed claims analysis. We determined that, excluding the impact of the Western MacArthur settlement, our asbestos reserves were adequate; however, including that impact, we determined that our asbestos reserves were inadequate. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we updated our detailed actuarial analysis for both asbestos and environmental reserves pertaining to our exposure from direct policyholders and relied more heavily on these analyses in determining the adequacy of our reserve provision for the remaining unreported losses. For non workers compensation asbestos claims we supplemented this detailed analysis with an additional analysis to determine an estimate of reserves specifically for policyholders who have not as yet tendered their first asbestos claim. As a result of these studies we increased net asbestos reserves by $77 million ($44 million in our ongoing operations and $33 million in our runoff operations) and net environmental reserves by $14 million (all in our ongoing operations). In addition, reviews of assumed and non domestic exposures caused us to increase net asbestos reserves by $13 million and reduce net environmental reserves by $1 million (all of which was recorded in our runoff operations). As a result of developments in the asbestos litigation environment generally, we determined in the first quarter of 2002 that it would be desirable to seek earlier and ultimately less costly resolutions of certain pending asbestos related litigations. As a result, we have decided where possible to seek to resolve these matters while continuing to vigorously assert defenses in pending litigations. We are taking a similar approach to environmental litigations. As discussed in more detail earlier in this report, in the second quarter of 2002 we entered into a definitive agreement to settle asbestos claims for a total gross cost of $995 million arising from any insuring relationship we and certain of our subsidiaries may have had with MacArthur Company, Western MacArthur Company or Western Asbestos Company. The table below represents a reconciliation of total gross and net environmental reserve development for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2003. Amounts in the net column are reduced by reinsurance recoverables. The disclosure of environmental reserve development includes all claims related to environmental exposures. Additional disclosure has been provided to separately identify loss payments and reserve amounts related to policies that were specifically underwritten to cover environmental exposures, referred to as Underwritten, as well as amounts related to environmental exposures that were not specifically underwritten, referred to as Not Underwritten. In 1988, we 93 completed our implementation of a pollution exclusion in our commercial general liability policies; therefore, activity related to accident years after 1988 generally relates to policies underwritten to include environmental exposures. The amounts presented for paid losses in the following table as Underwritten include primarily exposures related to accident years after 1988 for policies which the underwriter contemplated providing environmental coverage. In addition, certain pre 1988 exposures, primarily first party losses, are included since, they too, were contemplated by the underwriter to include environmental coverage. Not Underwritten primarily represents exposures related to accident years 1988 and prior for policies which were not contemplated by the underwriter to include environmental coverage. 2003 2002 2001 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net (In millions) Environmental Beginning reserves $ 370 298 $ 604 $ 519 $ 684 $ 573 Incurred losses 41 13 (2 ) (3 ) 6 21 Reserve reduction* (150 ) (150 ) Paid losses: Not underwritten (109 ) (66 ) (70 ) (56 ) (74 ) (63 ) Underwritten (19 ) (19 ) (12 ) (12 ) (12 ) (12 ) Ending reserves $ 283 226 $ 370 $ 298 $ 604 $ 519 * The $150 million reduction of environmental reserves discussed previously was included in both the gross and net incurred losses for 2002. For the year 2001, the gross and net environmental underwritten reserves at the beginning of the year totaled $27 million and $26 million, respectively, and at the end of the year both totaled $28 million. For 2002, the year end gross and net environmental underwritten reserves were both $36 million, and at December 31, 2003 the gross reserves were $37 million and net reserves were $36 million. These reserves relate to policies that were specifically underwritten to include environmental exposures. These underwritten reserve amounts are included in the total reserve amounts in the preceding table. The following table represents a reconciliation of total gross and net reserve development for asbestos claims for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2003. No policies have been underwritten to specifically include asbestos exposure. 2003 2002 2001 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net (In millions) Asbestos Beginning reserves $ 1,245 778 $ 577 $ 387 $ 471 $ 315 Incurred losses 164 90 846 482 167 116 Reserve increase 150 150 Paid losses (889 ) (543 ) (328 ) (241 ) (61 ) (44 ) Ending reserves $ 520 325 $ 1,245 $ 778 $ 577 387 Gross paid losses in 2003 include the $747 million payment, inclusive of $7 million in interest, made in the first quarter pursuant to the Western MacArthur litigation settlement agreement. Western MacArthur accounted for $9 million of gross incurred losses in 2003. Included in gross incurred losses in 2002 (including the $150 million reserve increase) were $995 million of losses related to the Western MacArthur agreement. Also included in the gross and net incurred losses for the year ended December 31, 2002, but 94 reported separately in the above table, was a $150 million increase in asbestos reserves. Gross paid losses include the $248 million Western MacArthur payment made in June 2002. Our reserves for environmental and asbestos losses at December 31, 2003 represent our best estimate of our ultimate liability for such losses, based on all information currently available. Because of the inherent difficulty in estimating such losses, however, we cannot give assurances that our ultimate liability for environmental and asbestos losses will, in fact, match current reserves. We continue to evaluate new information and developing loss patterns, as well as the potential impact of our determination to seek earlier and ultimately less costly resolutions of certain pending asbestos and environmental related litigations. Future changes in our estimates of our ultimate liability for environmental and asbestos claims may be material to our results of operations, but we do not believe they will materially impact our liquidity or overall financial position. Total gross environmental and asbestos reserves at December 31, 2003, of $803 million represented approximately 4% of gross consolidated reserves of $19.4 billion. ASSET MANAGEMENT Nuveen Investments, Inc. We hold a 79% interest in Nuveen Investments, Inc. (Nuveen Investments), which constitutes our asset management segment. Nuveen Investments core businesses are asset management and related research, as well as the development, marketing and distribution of investment products and services for the affluent, high net worth and institutional market segments. Nuveen Investments distributes its investment products and services, including individually managed accounts, closed end exchange traded funds and mutual funds, to the affluent and high net worth market segments through unaffiliated intermediary firms including broker/dealers, commercial banks, affiliates of insurance providers, financial planners, accountants, consultants and investment advisors. Nuveen Investments also provides managed account services to several institutional market segments and channels. The company markets its capabilities under four distinct brands: NWQ, a leader in value style equities; Nuveen Investments, a leader in tax free investments; Rittenhouse, a leader in growth style equities; and Symphony, a leading institutional manager of market neutral alternative investment portfolios. Nuveen Investments is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, trading under the symbol JNC. The following table summarizes Nuveen Investments key financial data for the last three years. Years ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 (In millions) Revenues $ 453 $ 398 $ 375 Expenses 218 191 187 Pretax income 235 207 188 Minority interest (48 ) (45 ) (46 ) The St. Pauls share of pretax income $ 187 $ 162 $ 142 Assets under management $ 95,356 $ 79,719 $ 68,485 Nuveen Investments primary business activities generate three principal sources of revenue: (1) advisory fees earned on assets under management, including separately managed accounts, exchange traded funds and mutual funds; (2) underwriting and distribution revenues earned upon the sale of certain investment products and (3) performance fees earned on certain institutional accounts based on the performance of such accounts. Advisory fees accounted for 90%, 90% and 88% of Nuveen Investments total revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 95 ACQUISITIONS In August 2002, Nuveen Investments acquired NWQ Investment Management Company, Inc. (NWQ), an asset management firm based in Los Angeles with approximately $6.9 billion of assets under management in both retail and institutional managed accounts at the time of the acquisition. NWQ specializes in value oriented equity investments and has significant relationships among institutions and financial advisors. The NWQ purchase price included up to an additional $20 million payable to the seller over a five year period under terms of a strategic alliance agreement, of which $2.5 million was paid in 2003. The purchase price was funded through a combination of available cash and borrowings under an intercompany credit facility between The St. Paul and Nuveen Investments. In July 2001, Nuveen Investments acquired Symphony Asset Management LLC (Symphony), an institutional investment manager based in San Francisco with approximately $4 billion in assets under management at the time of the acquisition. The acquisition of Symphony expanded Nuveen Investments product offerings to include managed accounts and funds designed to reduce risk through market neutral and other strategies for institutional investors. 2003 vs. 2002 Gross investment product sales in 2003 totaled a record $18.1 billion, 16% higher than 2002 product sales of $15.6 billion. Net flows (equal to the sum of sales, reinvestments and exchanges, less redemptions) were $9.4 billion in 2003, over $2 billion higher than 2002 net flows of $7.3 billion. Net flows were positive across all product lines managed accounts, closed end exchange traded products and mutual funds. Investor demand in 2003 continued to be strong for municipal investments and high quality taxable income oriented investments. Nuveen Investments raised $5.7 billion during the year through new closed end exchange traded funds that blend various stock and bond investment strategies. With the rebound of equity markets and investors renewed interest in equity investing, Nuveen Investments equity sales grew 45% over 2002 to $6.4 billion. The success Nuveen Investments has achieved over the last several years in broadening its business beyond municipal securities enabled Nuveen Investments to participate in the recovery of equity markets through both positive net flows and market appreciation. Assets under management at the end of 2003 totaled $95.4 billion, 20% higher than the year end 2002 total of $79.7 billion. The increase was driven by the strong net flows during the year, as well as $6.2 billion of equity and bond market appreciation. Managed assets at the end of the year were comprised of $47.1 billion of exchange traded funds, $25.7 billion of retail managed accounts, $10.3 billion of institutional managed accounts, and $12.3 billion of mutual funds. Investment advisory revenue totaled $405 million in 2003, 14% higher than 2002 revenue of $355 million. The increase in assets under management as well as the NWQ acquisition in August 2002 accounted for a portion of the higher revenues in 2003. Performance fee revenues of $34 million grew 48% over comparable 2002 fees of $23 million, due to continued strong fixed income performance at Symphony. The 15% increase in operating expenses in 2003 compared with 2002 was primarily due to the inclusion of NWQ in Nuveen Investments results for an entire year. 2002 vs. 2001 Gross sales of investment products of $15.6 billion in 2002 grew 10% over sales of $14.2 billion in 2001. The increase over 2001 was driven by an increase in exchange traded fund sales. Municipal mutual fund sales and institutional managed account sales also increased over 2001. Sales of retail managed accounts declined, as the addition of NWQ value accounts was more than offset by a reduction in equity growth account sales. Defined portfolio sales also declined in 2002, due to Nuveen Investments decision to exit this product line in 2002. Net flows of $7.3 billion in 2002 were down 5% from comparable 2001 net flows of $7.7 billion. Net flows were positive across all product categories in 2002 managed accounts, exchange traded funds and mutual funds. Nuveen Investments introduced 18 municipal closed end exchange traded funds in 2002, which, combined with municipal mutual funds and managed accounts, raised $4.8 billion in net new assets for the year. In addition, Nuveen Investments launched the first Preferred Stock closed end exchange traded fund in the industry, generating approximately $4 billion in new assets. 96 Assets under management at the end of 2002 of $79.7 billion, were 16% higher than the year end 2001 total of $68.5 billion. The NWQ acquisition accounted for approximately $7 billion of the increase, with the remainder due to strong net flows that more than offset equity market declines. Managed assets at the end of the year were comprised of $39.9 billion of exchange traded funds, $19.4 billion of retail managed accounts, $8.5 billion of institutional managed accounts, and $11.9 billion of mutual funds. Investment advisory revenue of $355 million in 2002 grew 8% over 2001 revenues of $331 million. A full year of Symphony and the addition of NWQ accounted for approximately 6% of the increase, while exchange traded funds and other fixed income products drove the remainder. Revenues on exchange traded funds grew 10% due to an increase in average assets under management as a result of both positive net flows and market appreciation. This increase was partially offset by a decline in advisory revenue related to equity growth accounts, where assets under management declined due to market depreciation and withdrawals. SHARE REPURCHASES Nuveen Investments repurchased common shares from minority shareholders in 2003, 2002 and 2001 for total costs of $42 million, $151 million and $172 million, respectively. No shares were repurchased from The St. Paul in those years. Our percentage ownership in Nuveen Investments grew from 78% at the end of 2000 to 79% at the end of 2003, as the share repurchases were substantially offset by Nuveen Investments issuance of additional shares under various stock option and incentive plans and the issuance of common shares upon the conversion of a portion of its preferred stock. As part of a new share repurchase program approved in August 2002, Nuveen Investments had authority from its board of directors to purchase up to 7.0 million shares of its common stock. At December 31, 2003, there were 4.2 million shares remaining under the new share repurchase program. THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed or available to be deployed to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at the end of each of the last three years. December 31 2003 2002 2001 (In millions) Shareholders Equity: Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings $ 5,529 $ 5,079 $ 4,692 Unrealized appreciation of investments and other 621 602 364 Total common shareholders equity 6,150 5,681 5,056 Preferred shareholders equity 75 65 58 Total shareholders equity 6,225 5,746 5,114 Debt: Parent company 3,448 2,658 1,947 Nuveen Investments, Inc. 302 55 183 Total debt 3,750 2,713 2,130 Company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiaries or trusts holding solely subordinated debentures of the company(1) 889 893 Total capitalization $ 9,975 $ 9,348 $ 8,137 Ratio of total debt obligations to total capitalization* 38 % 29 % 26 % * Debt obligations and total capitalization exclude the fair value of interest rate swap agreements in each year. 97 (1) In 2003, we deconsolidated the five business trusts that issued mandatorily redeemable preferred securities to investors. See further information in the following discussion. In accordance with accounting rules, prior years were not restated to conform to the 2003 presentation. COMMON EQUITY In 2003, the 8% increase in common shareholders equity was driven by our net income of $661 million for the year. In 2002, our issuance of new common shares through a public offering and our net income of $218 million were the primary factors contributing to the 12% increase in common equity over year end 2001. The following summarizes the major factors impacting our common shareholders equity in each of the last three years. Common dividends. We declared common dividends totaling $264 million in 2003, $252 million in 2002 and $235 million in 2001. In February 2004, The St. Pauls board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.29 per share payable April 16, 2004, level with the 2003 quarterly rate. Common share issuance. In July 2002, we issued 17.8 million common shares at $24.20 per share in a public offering that generated net proceeds of $413 million. The majority of proceeds were contributed as capital to our insurance underwriting subsidiaries. Common share repurchases. In 2003 and 2002, we made no significant repurchases of our common shares. In 2001, we repurchased and retired 13.0 million of our common shares for a total cost of $589 million, or approximately $45 per share. The share repurchases in 2001 occurred prior to September 11 and represented 6% of our total shares outstanding at the beginning of the year. The share repurchases in 2001 were financed through a combination of internally generated funds and new debt issuances. Unrealized appreciation of investments. The net after tax appreciation on our fixed income investment portfolio declined by $114 million from year end 2002, reflecting a decline in the market value of that portfolio due to an increase in market interest rates in 2003. In 2002, the net after tax appreciation on our fixed income portfolio grew by $300 million over year end 2001, reflecting the significant decline in interest rates during the year. PREFERRED EQUITY Preferred shareholders equity consisted of the par value of the Series B preferred shares we issued to our Stock Ownership Plan (SOP) Trust, less the remaining principal balance of the SOP Trust debt. During 2003, 2002 and 2001, the trust made principal payments of $18 million, $13 million and $14 million, respectively, on the Trust debt. 98 DEBT Our consolidated debt outstanding at the end of the last three years consisted of the following components. December 31 2003 2002 2001 (In millions) 5.75% senior notes $ 499 $ 499 $ Medium term notes 455 523 571 5.25% senior notes 443 443 Commercial paper 322 379 606 Nuveen Investments third party debt 302 55 183 7.875% senior notes 250 249 249 8.125% senior notes 249 249 249 Zero coupon convertible notes 112 107 103 7.125% senior notes 80 80 80 Variable rate borrowings 64 64 64 Real estate mortgages 2 Subtotal 2,776 2,648 2,107 Debt related to company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of trusts holding solely subordinated debentures of The St. Paul: 7.6% St. Paul Capital Trust I 593 7.625% MMI Capital Trust I 125 8.5% USF&G Capital Trust I 56 8.47% USF&G Capital Trust II 81 8.312% USF&G Capital Trust III 73 Subtotal 928 Fair value of interest rate swap agreements 46 65 23 Total reported debt $ 3,750 $ 2,713 $ 2,130 2003 vs. 2002 As discussed in more detail in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we concluded that the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities(as revised) (FIN 46(R)) applied to the five business trusts that issued mandatorily redeemable preferred securities to investors which were fully guaranteed by us. As a result, we de consolidated these trusts, and now report our borrowings from these trusts as debt on our consolidated balance sheet. In years prior to 2003, the preferred securities issued by these trusts and guaranteed by us were reported in our balance sheet as a separate line item between total liabilities and shareholders equity, and referred to as company obligated mandatorily redeemable securities of trusts holding solely subordinated debentures of the company. Prior to 2003, the debt issued by us to the trusts was eliminated in consolidation. The following is a summary of the provisions of the five business trusts, each of which was formed for the sole purpose of issuing those securities. St. Paul Capital Trust I issued 23,000,000 preferred securities generating gross proceeds of $575 million, the proceeds of which were used to purchase subordinated debentures issued by us. We make quarterly interest payments at a rate of 7.6% on the debentures, which have a mandatory redemption date of October 15, 2050. The preferred securities issued by the trust in turn pay a quarterly distribution at an annual rate of 7.6%. We can redeem the debentures on or after November 13, 2006. The proceeds of such redemption would be used by the trust to redeem a like amount of its preferred securities. 99 MMI Capital Trust I issued $125 million of preferred securities in 1997, the proceeds of which were used to purchase subordinated debentures issued by MMI Corporation. We assumed the liability for these debentures upon our acquisition of MMI in 2000. We make semi annual interest payments at a rate of 7.625% on the debentures, which have a mandatory redemption date of December 15, 2027. The preferred securities in turn pay a preferred distribution of 7.625% semi annually in arrears. In 2002, we repurchased and retired $4 million of the MMI trust preferred securities in an open market transaction. USF&G Capital Trusts I, II and III each issued $100 million of preferred securities in 1997 and 1996, the proceeds of which were used to purchase subordinated debentures issued by USF&G Corporation, which made semi annual interest payments at rates of 8.5%, 8.47% and 8.312%, respectively. We assumed the liability for these debentures upon our merger with USF&G Corporation in 1998. Since the merger, we have repurchased and retired securities from each trust from time to time in open market transactions. The debentures related to the USF&G Capital Trust I, II and III have mandatory redemption dates of December 15, 2045, January 10, 2027 and July 1, 2046, respectively. Debentures related to each trust may, however, be redeemed earlier under certain conditions that vary among the three trusts. The proceeds of such redemptions would be used to redeem a like amount of each trusts preferred securities. In the third quarter of 2003, Nuveen Investments issued $300 million of 4.22% notes due in September 2008 in a private placement. A portion of the proceeds was used to refinance existing debt and repay a $105 million loan from The St. Paul. The remainder will be used for Nuveen Investments general corporate purposes. During 2003, $67 million of The St. Pauls medium term notes matured, which were funded through a combination of internally generated funds and the issuance of commercial paper. 2002 vs. 2001 The $541 million net increase in reported debt obligations in 2002 over 2001 was primarily due to new debt issuances to fund capital contributions and loans to our operating subsidiaries. In March 2002, we issued $500 million of 5.75% senior notes that mature in 2007, the proceeds of which were primarily used to repay a like amount of our commercial paper outstanding at the time. In July 2002, we sold 17.8 million of our common shares in a public offering for gross consideration of $431 million, or $24.20 per share. In a separate concurrent public offering, we sold 8.9 million equity units, each having a stated amount of $50, for gross consideration of $443 million. Each equity unit initially consists of a three year forward purchase contract for our common stock and our unsecured $50 senior note due in August 2007. Total annual distributions on the equity units are at the rate of 9.00%, consisting of interest on the note at a rate of 5.25% and fee payments under the forward contract of 3.75%. The forward contract requires the investor to purchase, for $50, a variable number of shares of our common stock on the settlement date of August 16, 2005. The $46 million present value of the forward contract fee payments was recorded as a reduction to our reported common shareholders equity. The number of shares to be purchased will be determined based on a formula that considers the average trading price of the stock immediately prior to the time of settlement in relation to the $24.20 per share price at the time of the offering. Had the settlement date been December 31, 2003 or 2002, we would have issued approximately 15 million common shares based on the average trading price of our common stock immediately prior to that date. The combined net proceeds of these offerings, after underwriting commissions and other fees and expenses, were approximately $842 million, of which $750 million was contributed as capital to our insurance underwriting subsidiaries. Throughout 2002, medium term notes totaling $49 million matured, and their repayment was funded through internally generated funds. In July 2002, Nuveen Investments entered into and fully drew down a $250 million revolving line of credit with The St. Paul. Nuveen Investments used a portion of the proceeds to reduce the amount of debt outstanding on its revolving bank line of credit from $183 million at the end of June 2002 to $55 million at December 31, 2002. 100 INTEREST EXPENSE Net interest expense on debt totaled $187 million in 2003, compared with $112 million in 2002. The 2003 total included $72 million of interest expense related to the debt associated with the five business trusts described above. At the end of 2003 and 2002, we were party to a number of interest rate swap agreements related to several of our debt securities outstanding. The notional amount of these swaps totaled $730 million at both dates, and their aggregate fair value was $46 million and $65 million at year end 2003 and 2002, respectively. The fair value of the swap agreements is recorded as an asset, with a corresponding increase to reported debt. These swap agreements had the effect of reducing our interest expense by $32 million and $21 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES As noted above, these securities were issued by five business trusts that were fully guaranteed by The St. Paul. Prior to the adoption of the provisions of FIN 46(R) with respect to these trusts in 2003, the trusts were included in our consolidated financial statements and the securities they issued were included in our balance sheet as a separate line between liabilities and shareholders equity. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we did not restate prior year financial statements upon our adoption of FIN 46(R). Our total distribution expense related to the preferred securities was $70 million in 2002 and $33 million in 2001. The increase in 2002 was due to the $575 million, 7.6% securities issued by St. Paul Capital Trust I in November 2001. In 2003, subsequent to the de consolidation of these trusts, the expense related to these trusts ($72 million) was included in our total interest expense. MAJOR ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES In March 2002, we completed our acquisition of London Guarantee (now St. Paul Guarantee) for a total cost of approximately $80 million, financed with internally generated funds. In September 2001, we sold our life insurance subsidiary, F&G Life, to Old Mutual plc, for $335 million in cash and 190.4 million Old Mutual ordinary shares (valued at $300 million at closing). The cash proceeds received were used for general corporate purposes. In June 2002, we sold all of the Old Mutual shares we were holding for total net proceeds of $287 million, which were also used for general corporate purposes. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS We made no major capital improvements during any of the last three years, and none are anticipated in 2004. THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of our business operations. Our underwriting operations short term cash needs primarily consist of paying insurance loss and loss adjustment expenses and day to day operating expenses. Those needs are met through cash receipts from operations, which consist primarily of insurance premiums collected and investment income. Our investment portfolio is also a source of additional liquidity, through the sale of readily marketable fixed maturities, equity securities and short term investments, as well as longer term investments such as real estate and venture capital holdings. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investment activities are used to build the investment portfolio and thereby increase future investment income. Net cash flows provided by continuing operations totaled $133 million in 2003, compared with cash provided by continuing operations of $129 million in 2002 and $884 million in 2001. Operational cash flows in 2003 were negatively impacted by the January 2003 payment of $747 million related to the Western MacArthur asbestos litigation settlement, which accounted for a significant portion of the net $1.2 billion decline in insurance reserves disclosed on our consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 101 December 31, 2003. The additional decline in insurance reserves was primarily due to loss and loss adjustment expense payments related to our other operations that were placed in runoff at the end of 2001, which included our Health Care and Reinsurance operations, as well as several of our international underwriting operations. We have ceased underwriting new business in these operations, and as expected, the payments out of previously established reserves have exceeded new loss and loss adjustment expense reserve provisions, resulting in a decline in our total reserve balance. Our cash flows from operations improved during the second half of 2003, however, reflecting the impact of price increases and continuing improvement in the quality of our book of business in our ongoing underwriting segments. Our operational cash flows in 2002 were negatively impacted by the $248 million payment made in June related to the Western MacArthur asbestos litigation settlement, net payments of $289 million associated with our transfer of unearned premium balances and other reinsurance related balances to Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd. in November, loss payments totaling $242 million related to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack and contributions to our pension plans totaling $158 million in December. Loss and loss adjustment expense payments from our other business segments in runoff, where our written premium volume was significantly less than in 2001, also negatively impacted our consolidated operating cash flows. We believe our financial strength continues to provide us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain funds externally through debt or equity financings on both a short term and long term basis. We continue to maintain an $800 million commercial paper program with $600 million of back up liquidity, consisting entirely of bank credit agreements. In January 2003, we established a program providing for the offering of up to $500 million of medium term notes. As of February 27, 2004, we had not issued any notes under this program. The consummation of the Proposed Merger would trigger a technical event of default under certain of our credit agreements; however, the lenders have agreed to waive the technical event of default, contingent upon the consummation of the Proposed Merger. We primarily depend on dividends from our subsidiaries to pay dividends to our shareholders, service our debt, and pay expenses. St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company (Fire and Marine) is our lead U.S. property liability underwriting subsidiary and its dividend paying capacity is limited by the laws of Minnesota, its state of domicile. Fire and Marines ability to receive dividends from its direct and indirect subsidiaries is also subject to restrictions of their respective states or other jurisdictions of domicile. Business and regulatory considerations may impact the amount of dividends actually paid. Approximately $774 million will be available to us from payment of ordinary dividends by Fire and Marine in 2004. Any dividend payments beyond the $774 million limitation are subject to prior approval of the Minnesota Commissioner of Commerce. In 2003, we received dividends in the form of cash and securities totaling $625 million from our U.S. underwriting subsidiaries. We received no cash dividends from our U.S. property liability underwriting subsidiaries in 2002. In 2001, we received dividends in the form of cash and securities of $827 million from Fire and Marine. We are not aware of any current recommendations by regulatory authorities that, if implemented, might have a material impact on our liquidity, capital resources or operations. THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES Independent Ratings Ratings with respect to claims paying ability and financial strength are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and will also impact the cost and availability of capital to an insurance company. We compete with other insurance companies, financial intermediaries and financial institutions on the basis of a number of factors, including the ratings assigned by internationally recognized rating organizations. Ratings represent an important consideration in maintaining customer confidence in our ability to market insurance products. Rating organizations 102 regularly analyze the financial performance and condition of insurers. Any ratings downgrades, or the potential for ratings downgrades, could adversely affect our ability to market and distribute products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In April 2003, Moodys Investors Services, Inc. lowered certain of our financial ratings and those of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries and established a stable outlook on the ratings going forward. In June 2003, A.M. Best Co. also lowered certain of our financial ratings while affirming those of our insurance underwriting subsidiaries and maintaining stable outlooks for both sets of ratings going forward. In connection with the announcement of the Proposed Merger in November 2003, A.M. Best, Moodys Investor Service (Moodys), Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) announced the following rating actions: A.M. Best: Placed our financial strength and debt ratings under review with positive implications. Moodys: Confirmed the financial strength and debt ratings; raised the financial strength rating outlook from stable to positive; confirmed the stable outlook for debt ratings. S&P: Placed the financial strength and debt ratings on CreditWatch with positive implications and indicated that the ratings could be affirmed or raised by one notch. Fitch: Placed the debt ratings on Rating Watch positive and indicated that the long term debt rating could be upgraded by one or two notches. Subsequent to these initial announcements, A.M. Best, S&P and Fitch announced the following: A.M. Best: Revised the implications of its review of our financial strength and debt ratings from positive to developing, following our announcement of a $350 million pretax charge in the 2003 fourth quarter to increase reserves for our Health Care business, which is in runoff. S&P: Revised the CreditWatch status of our financial strength and debt ratings from positive to developing, following our announcement of the $350 million pretax charge, and subsequently revised the CreditWatch status from developing to negative, following its latest assessment of us on a stand alone basis. It indicated that, subject to the completion of the Proposed Merger, it expects to affirm our current A+ financial strength rating and BBB+ senior unsecured debt rating, which would align the ratings with those of Travelers post close of the Proposed Merger. It also indicated that if the Proposed Merger were not completed, it would expect to downgrade us to an A financial strength rating and a BBB senior unsecured debt rating. Fitch: Revised the Rating Watch status of our debt ratings from positive to evolving, following our announcement of the $350 million pretax charge, and subsequently lowered our senior unsecured debt rating from BBB+ to BBB, following its latest assessment of us on a stand alone basis. Fitch simultaneously revised the Rating Watch status from evolving to positive and indicated its belief that it will likely upgrade our ratings upon the close of the Proposed Merger with Travelers. Ratings are not in any way a measure of protection afforded to investors and should not be relied upon in making an investment decision. 103 THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES PENSION PLANS Due to the long term nature of obligations under our pension plans, the accounting for such plans is complex and reflects various actuarial assumptions. Managements selection of plan assumptions, primarily the discount rate used to calculate the projected benefit obligation and the expected long term rate of return on plan assets (LTROR), can have a significant impact on our resulting estimated projected benefit obligation and pension cost, and thus on our consolidated results of operations. Such plan assumptions are determined annually, subject to revision if significant events occur during the year, such as plan mergers and significant plan amendments. Our pension plan measurement date for purposes of our consolidated financial statements is December 31. The market related value of plan assets is determined based on their fair value at the measurement date. The projected benefit obligation is determined based on the present value of projected benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The discount rate used reflects the rate at which we believe the pension plan obligations could be effectively settled at the measurement date, as though the pension benefits of all plan participants were determined as of that date. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the discount rates used to calculate our projected benefit obligation were 6.00% and 6.50%, respectively, for our consolidated pension plans, which encompass our U.S. plan (including Nuveen Investments plan), our Canada plan and our U.K. plans. For our U.S. plan, which constituted 94% of our consolidated pension plan assets at December 31, 2003, such rates were determined based on the Moodys Investor Services AA Long Term Industrial December Average Bond yield with a duration of approximately 11 to 13 years (which correlates to the expected duration of our pension obligations), rounded up to the nearest quarter percent. Total pension cost encompasses the cost of service, interest costs based on an assumed discount rate, an expected long term rate of return on plan assets and amortization of actuarial gains and losses, adjusted for curtailment gains or losses, if any. Actuarial gains and losses include the impact of unrecognized gains and losses that are deferred and amortized over the expected future service period of active employees. Any unrecognized gains or losses related to changes in the amount of the projected benefit obligation or plan assets resulting from experience that differs from the expected returns and from changes in assumptions are deferred. To the extent an unrecognized gain or loss exceeds 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets (10 percent corridor), the excess is recognized over the expected future service periods of active employees. At December 31, 2003, the accumulated unrecognized loss for our consolidated pension plans subject to minimum amortization approximated $305 million, which exceeded the 10 percent corridor, and will be amortized over 12 years. As a result, pension cost in 2004 is expected to include approximately $25 million of amortization. The amount of the unrecognized gain or loss that is less than the 10% corridor, and is therefore not subject to minimum amortization in 2004, was approximately $117 million at December 31, 2003. 104 The expected long term rate of return on plan assets is estimated based on the plans actual historical return results, the expected allocation of plan assets by investment class, market conditions and other relevant factors. We evaluate only whether the actual allocation has fallen within an expected range, and we then evaluate actual asset returns in total, rather than by asset class, giving consideration to the fact that our equity investments have a higher volatility than our other investment classes, which is consistent with the market in general. The following table presents the actual allocation of plan assets in comparison with the expected allocation range, both expressed as a percentage of total plan assets, on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2003 and for our U.S. plan only as of December 31, 2002. Our U.S. plan accounted for 95% of our consolidated pension plan assets as of December 31, 2002. December 31 2003 2002 Asset Class Actual Expected Actual Expected Cash* 9 % 0 10 % 22 % 0 10 % Fixed maturities 27 % 30 70 % 31 % 30 70 % Equities 62 % 30 70 % 45 % 30 70 % Other 2 % 0 10 % 2 % 0 10 % Total 100 % 100 % * The high level of cash at year end 2002 resulted from a significant contribution we made to the plan in December 2002. The following table presents our consolidated weighted average pension plan assumptions. December 31 2003 2002 2001 Discount rate 6.00 % 6.50 % 7.00 % Expected long term rate of return 8.50 % 8.50 % 10.00 % Expected rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % At December 31, 2000, our discount rate assumption was determined based on a weighted average of the rates expected to be used to settle our obligations, considering the portion of our obligation expected to be settled by annuity payments and the portion expected to be settled by lump sum payments. At December 31, 2001, considering the impact of the plan design change to add a cash balance formula, we determined that the vast majority of the participants electing to remain under the traditional pension formula would select the annuity payment option. As such, we determined our projected benefit obligation was more appropriately calculated using strictly the rate at which we believed we could settle the annuity obligations. Based on our assumption that the vast majority of the participants electing to remain under the traditional pension formula would select the annuity payment option, we eliminated from our discount rate determination the lower rate that we assume would otherwise be used to settle lump sum payments, and thereby increased our discount rate as of December 31, 2001. In 2002, the declining interest rate environment caused us to reduce our discount rate and LTROR as of December 31, 2002. In 2003, the declining interest rate environment caused us to reduce our discount rate as of December 31, 2003. The LTROR remained the same. As discussed above, investment and funding decisions and pension plan assumptions can materially impact our consolidated financial results of operations. Consequently, our Benefit Plans Investment Committee regularly evaluates investment returns, asset allocation strategies, possible plan contributions, and plan assumptions. Regardless of the extent of our analysis of such factors, plan assumptions reflect judgments and are subject to changes in economic factors. There can be no assurance that our assumptions will prove to be correct or that they will not be subject to significant adjustments over time. For purposes 105 of comparison, for the six year period and 20 year period ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, our arithmetic average actual returns on our U.S. plan assets were 6.70% and 12.56%, respectively, for 2003 and 7.71% and 12.48%, respectively, for 2002. Funding decisions are made based on a number of factors, including the minimum regulatory funding requirements, the maximum tax deductible contributions, the estimated market value of plan assets in relation to our accumulated benefit obligation, current market conditions and other business factors. During 2002, we made contributions to the U.S. plan and the United Kingdom plans of approximately $149 million and $9 million, respectively, that were primarily necessitated by the significant decline in market value of equity investments held by the plans, which was consistent with general market trends during 2002. During 2003, we made contributions to the U.S. plan and the foreign plans of approximately $30 million and $6 million, respectively. The following table presents the impact of consolidated net pension cost (income) on our results of operations (before and after the impact of a curtailment loss resulting from plan design changes in 2001) for the years 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Net periodic pension cost (income) $ 32 $ 17 $ (20 ) Curtailment loss (gain) (2 ) 9 17 Net impact after curtailment gain or loss $ 30 $ 26 $ (3 ) Because of the subjective nature of certain plan assumptions, the following table presents, for the U.S. plan only, a sensitivity analysis to hypothetical changes in the LTROR (in 50 basis point increments) and the discount rate (in 25 basis point increments) on net income for the year ended December 31, 2003. The results presented in the tables assume that only the LTROR or discount rate assumption, as applicable for each table, is changed and that all other assumptions remain constant. Base LTROR 7.50% 8.00% 8.50% 9.00% 9.50% 10.00% ($ in millions) Incremental benefit (cost) $ (10 ) $ (5 ) $ $ 5 $ 10 $ 15 Percent of 2003 net income 2 % 1 % % 1 % 2 % 2 % Base Discount Rate 6.00% 6.25% 6.50% 6.75% 7.00% ($ in millions) Incremental benefit (cost) $ (3 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 2 $ 3 Percent of 2003 net income 1 % % % % 1 % It is estimated that the December 31, 2003 assumptions will result in a consolidated 2004 pension cost of approximately $15 million. Postretirement Benefits Plan Assumptions The following table presents our postretirement benefits plan assumptions as of December 31. 2003 2002 2001 Discount rate 6.00 % 6.50 % 7.00 % Expected long term rate of return 6.00 % 6.00 % 7.00 % Expected rate of compensation increase N/A N/A 4.00 % Our expected long term rate of return for our postretirement benefits plan differs from that used for our pension plan due to differences in the funded assets (fixed maturity investments in our postretirement 106 benefits plan compared with various investment classes in our pension plan) used to fund certain of the related obligations. The following table presents the impact of postretirement expense (income) on our results of operations (before and after the impact of curtailment gains resulting from plan design changes in 2002 and 2001) for the years 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Years Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Net periodic benefit cost (income) $ 19 $ 24 $ 17 Curtailment gain (9 ) (17 ) Net impact after curtailment $ 19 $ 15 $ THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES IMPACT OF ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS TO BE ADOPTED IN THE FUTURE In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, which provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. This statement requires additional disclosures in the event of a voluntary change. It also no longer permits the use of the original prospective method of transition for changes to the fair value based method for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2003. We currently account for stock based compensation under APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, using the intrinsic value method, and have not made a determination regarding any change to the fair value method. As discussed in more detail in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in December 2003, the FASB issued a revised version of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46(R)), which again deferred the effective date for certain provisions of FIN 46(R) until the first interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2003, which for us would be the period ended March 31, 2004. Under the partial adoption provisions of FIN 46(R), we early adopted the consolidation and disclosure provisions of this interpretation in 2003. Our partial adoption specifically excluded the following item. Lloyds Syndicates We participate in various Lloyds syndicates at varying levels. We continue to evaluate the implications of FIN 46(R) with respect to these syndicates, and at this time we are not able to quantify the impact of adoption on our consolidated financial statements. On January 12, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 1, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (FSP 106 1). This pronouncement provides companies with the option to make a one time election to defer accounting for the effects of the Medicare Act referenced in its title (the Act). We have decided to defer accounting for the Act under FSP 106 1 and have made the required disclosures in Note 13 Retirement Plans to the consolidated financial statements. The final accounting guidance could require changes to previously reported information. We will monitor the FASB deliberations and account for the Act based on the pronouncement expected to be issued. DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN STATUTORY ACCOUNTING TERMS Statutory Expense Ratio (a statutory financial measure): The company uses the statutory definition of expenses in calculating expense ratios disclosed. Expenses are divided by net written premiums to arrive at the expense ratio. Statutory expenses differ from GAAP expenses primarily with regard to policy acquisition costs, which are not deferred and amortized for statutory purposes, but rather recognized as 107 incurred. In addition, the GAAP expense ratio uses net earned premiums rather than net written premiums as the denominator. Statutory Loss Ratio (a statutory financial measure): The company uses the statutory definition of loss ratio. This ratio is calculated by dividing losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred by net earned premiums. Net earned premiums and losses and loss adjustment expenses, are both GAAP and statutory measures. Statutory Combined Ratio (a statutory financial measure): The sum of the statutory expense ratio and the statutory loss ratio. Net Written Premiums(a statutory financial measure) and Net Earned Premiums (a GAAP financial measure): Net written premiums are a statutory measure of premium volume that differs from the net earned premiums reported in our GAAP statement of operations. Written premiums for a period can be reconciled to earned premiums by adding or subtracting the change in unearned premium reserves in the period. Underwriting Results By Segment (a GAAP financial measure): Our reported underwriting results are our best measure of profitability for our property liability underwriting segments and accordingly are disclosed in the footnotes to our financial statements required by SFAS No.131 Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses (as adjusted for items such as the impact of deferred policy acquisition costs) from net earned premiums. We do not allocate net investment income to our respective underwriting segments. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES EXPOSURES TO MARKET RISK Market risk can be described as the risk of change in fair value of a financial instrument due to changes in interest rates, equity prices, creditworthiness, foreign exchange rates or other factors. We seek to mitigate that risk by a number of actions, as described below. Our policies to address these risks in 2003 were unchanged from 2002. In 2002, the only significant changes to our market risk from 2001 were a reduced allocation of assets to our equity investment portfolio, and a reduction in the estimated duration of our fixed income investment portfolio, which includes our consolidated holdings of fixed income securities, securities on loan and short term investments. As discussed in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section of this discussion, there are risks and uncertainties related to our assessment of other than temporary impairments in our investment portfolio. INTEREST RATE RISK Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates is concentrated in our investment portfolio, and to a lesser extent, our debt obligations. However, changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. Our estimates of cash flows, as well as the impact of interest rate fluctuations relating to our investment portfolio and insurance reserves, are modeled and reviewed quarterly. At December 31, 2003, the estimated duration of our fixed income investment portfolio (consolidated holdings of fixed income securities, securities on loan and short term investments) was 3.8 years, compared with 3.3 years at December 31, 2002. It should be noted that during the quarter ending September 30, 2003 new modeling capabilities for estimating the effective duration of municipal bonds were introduced to replace previous estimates based on the market yield to worst. The effect of 108 this change was to increase the estimate of overall duration by approximately 0.3 years over and above what would have resulted from the application of previous estimation procedures. The following table provides principal cash flow estimates by year for our December 31, 2003 and 2002 holdings of interest sensitive investment assets considered to be other than trading. Those holdings consist of our consolidated fixed income securities, securities on loan, short term investments, mortgage loans and certain securities issued as part of a series of insurance transactions. Also provided are the weighted average interest rates associated with each years cash flows. Principal cash flow projections for collateralized mortgage obligations and asset backed securities were prepared using third party prepayment models and estimates. Cash flow estimates for mortgage pass throughs were prepared using consensus prepayment forecasts obtainable from a third party provider. Principal cash flow estimates for callable bonds are either to maturity or to the next call date depending on whether the call was projected to be in the money assuming no change in interest rates. No projection of the impact of reinvesting the estimated cash flows is included in the table, regardless of whether the cash flow source is a short term or long term fixed maturity security. Our fixed income investments are primarily held to pay liabilities inherent in our insurance reserves. The composition of our portfolios estimated principal and interest runoff helps ensure that adequate financial resources will be available to fund each years estimated insurance liability payments, as such payments become due. December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 Interest sensitive Investment Assets Principal Cash Flows Weighted Average Interest Rate Principal Cash Flows Weighted Average Interest Rate ($ in millions) Period from balance sheet date: One year $ 6,206 2.9 % $ 5,988 3.3 % Two years 2,045 6.2 % 2,348 6.7 % Three years 2,230 5.9 % 2,070 5.9 % Four years 1,761 5.4 % 1,950 6.0 % Five years 1,387 5.7 % 1,668 5.1 % Thereafter 7,059 5.9 % 6,638 5.8 % Total $ 20,688 $ 20,662 Fair value $ 21,152 $ 20,614 The following table provides principal runoff estimates by year for our December 31, 2003 and 2002 inventories of interest sensitive debt obligations and related weighted average interest rates by stated maturity dates. December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 Medium term Notes, Zero Coupon Notes and Senior Notes Principal Cash Flows Weighted Average Interest Rate Principal Cash Flows Weighted Average Interest Rate ($ in millions) Period from balance sheet date: One year $ 55 7.1 % $ 67 6.5 % Two years 429 7.5 % 55 7.1 % Three years 59 7.0 % 429 7.5 % Four years 1,015 5.6 % 59 7.0 % Five years 452 6.4 % 1,015 5.6 % Thereafter 1,340 7.5 % 562 6.7 % Total $ 3,350 $ 2,187 Fair value $ 3,594 $ 2,293 109 To mitigate a portion of the interest rate risk related to certain of our fixed rate medium term and senior notes, we have entered into a number of pay floating, receive fixed interest rate swap agreements that, in the aggregate, have a notional amount of $730 million. Of the total notional amount of the swaps, $330 million mature in 2005, $150 million mature in 2008 and $250 million mature in 2010, with a weighted average pay rate of 3.19% and a weighted average receive rate of 7.57%. These swaps had a fair value of $46 million and $65 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In 2003, we included debt owed to five business trusts that have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred securities to investors, the obligations of which have been fully guaranteed by us. As discussed in further detail in the Adoption of Accounting Standards section of this report, in 2003 we adopted the provisions of FIN46(R), which resulted in the deconsolidation of these trusts from our consolidated financial statements. As a result, the debt we issued to these trusts (previously eliminated in consolidation) is now shown in our consolidated debt outstanding, whereas the preferred securities, which were previously included in our consolidated balance sheet between liabilities and shareholders equity, are no longer included in our balance sheet. The weighted average interest rate on the debt owed to the five trusts was 7.8 % at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The fair value of these securities was $1.03 billion and $959 million as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Approximately $575 million of the securities are callable at the Companys option after November 13, 2006. An additional $78 million are callable at the Companys option between 2007 and their maturity in 2027. CREDIT RISK Our portfolios of fixed income securities, mortgage loans and to a lesser extent short term and other investments are subject to credit risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in market value resulting from adverse changes in the borrowers ability to repay the debt. Our objective is to earn competitive relative returns by investing in a diversified portfolio of securities. We manage this risk by up front, stringent underwriting analysis, reviews by a credit committee and regular meetings to review credit developments. Watchlists are maintained for exposures requiring additional review, and all credit exposures are reviewed at least annually. At December 31, 2003, approximately 98% of our fixed income portfolio was rated investment grade. In certain of our operations, we underwrite certain business for sophisticated insurance purchasers, and reinsure a substantial portion of that risk with traditional reinsurers or captive insurance entities. Although these transactions are highly collateralized, there is a degree of credit risk associated with these transactions. We perform credit reviews of the underlying financial stability of the insured and or assuming reinsurance entity as part of our program to manage this risk. We also have other receivable amounts subject to credit risk. The most significant of these are reinsurance recoverables. To mitigate the risk of these counterparties nonpayment of amounts due, we establish business and financial standards for reinsurer approval, incorporating ratings by major rating agencies and considering current market information. FOREIGN CURRENCY EXPOSURE Our exposure to market risk for changes in foreign exchange rates is concentrated in our invested assets, and insurance reserves, denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from our foreign operations are the primary source of funds for our purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. We purchase these investments primarily to hedge insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. For those foreign insurance operations that were identified at the end of 2001 as businesses to be exited, we intend to continue to closely match the foreign currency denominated liabilities with assets in the same currency. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, approximately 13% of our invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 7% of our total invested assets at December 31, 2003. We have determined that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of the Pound Sterling would have an approximate $165 million reduction in the value of our assets, although there would be a similar offsetting 110 change in the value of the related insurance reserves. No other individual foreign currency accounts for more than 4% of our invested assets. We have also entered into foreign currency forwards with a U.S. dollar equivalent notional amount of $203.5 million as of December 31, 2003 to hedge our foreign currency exposure on certain contracts. Of this total, 78% are denominated in British Pound Sterling, 12% are denominated in the Australian dollar, and 10% are denominated in the Canadian dollar. EQUITY PRICE RISK Our portfolio of marketable equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at market value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in market value resulting from an adverse change in prices. Our objective is to earn competitive relative returns by investing in a diverse portfolio of high quality, liquid securities. Portfolio characteristics are analyzed regularly and market risk is actively managed through a variety of modeling techniques. Our holdings are diversified across industries, and concentrations in any one company or industry are limited by parameters established by senior management, as well as by statutory requirements. Included in our Other investments at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was our 14% equity ownership in Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd. (Platinum), received as partial consideration from the transfer of our ongoing reinsurance business to Platinum. We account for our investment in Platinum using the equity method of accounting. Therefore, changes in Platinums stock price do not impact our balance sheet or statement of operations, unless our investment in Platinum was deemed to be impaired. Also included in our Other investments are stock purchase warrants for Platinum. The warrants had a value of $65 million and $61 million as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The warrants are considered derivatives and are marked to market quarterly, with changes in fair value being recognized as realized gains or losses in our statement of operations. The warrants are valued using the Roll Geske Whaley valuation model and as such are impacted by the market price of Platinum stock. Our portfolio of venture capital investments also has exposure to market risks, primarily relating to the viability of the various entities in which we have invested. These investments, primarily in early stage companies, involve more risk than other investments, and we actively manage our market risk in a variety of ways. First, we allocate a comparatively small amount of funds to venture capital. At the end of 2003, the cost of these investments accounted for only 2% of total invested assets. Second, the investments are diversified to avoid excessive concentration of risk in a particular industry. Third, we perform extensive research prior to investing in a new venture to gauge prospects for success. Fourth, we regularly monitor the operational results of the entities in which we have invested. Finally, we generally sell our holdings in these firms soon after they become publicly traded when we are legally able to do so, thereby reducing exposure to further market risk. At December 31, 2003, our marketable equity securities were recorded at their fair value of $171 million. A hypothetical 10% decline in each stocks price would have resulted in a $17 million impact on fair value. At December 31, 2003, our venture capital investments were recorded at their fair value of $535 million. A hypothetical 10% decline in each investments fair value would have resulted in a $54 million impact on fair value. CATASTROPHE RISK We manage and monitor our aggregate property catastrophe exposure through various methods, including purchasing catastrophe reinsurance, establishing underwriting restrictions and applying a dedicated catastrophe pricing model. See Item 1 of this report for further information about our management of catastrophe risk. 111 
 
