Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2006 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued, the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against us and future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. In addition, our asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience has been impacted by the exhaustion or unavailability due to insolvency of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders along with the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants, although we have noted a recent decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation, including legislation related to asbestos reform. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of large coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos reserves, which includes an annual review of asbestos policyholders, we continue to study the implications of these and other developments. We completed our most recent annual review during the third quarter of 2006. See the Asbestos Claims and Litigation and Environmental Claims and Litigation sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Also see Item 3 Legal Proceedings. A portion of our loss reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation which aggregated $4.47 billion at December 31, 2006. While the ongoing study of asbestos and environmental 49 claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of our management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to our operating results in future periods. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Claims and Litigation. We are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. In addition to asbestos and environmental pollution, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. Establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. Moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, impede our ability to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures in medical costs and auto and home repair costs; judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claim handling and other practices; increases in the number and size of claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; increases in the number and size of claims related to expenses for testing and remediation of mold conditions; and claims from directors and officers insurance relating to possible accounting irregularities, corporate governance issues and stock option backdating, spring loading and other option grant practices. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. 50 Reinsurance may not protect us against losses. We use reinsurance to help manage our exposure to property and casualty risks. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our business volume and profitability. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. In addition, some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. This is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. Reinsurance may not protect us against losses and may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. The insurance industry is the subject of a number of investigations by state and federal authorities in the United States. We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or the impact on our business or financial results. As part of ongoing, industry wide investigations, we and our affiliates have received subpoenas and written requests for information from government agencies and authorities, including from the Attorneys General of numerous states, various states insurance and business regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The areas of pending inquiry addressed to us include our relationship with brokers and agents and our involvement with non traditional insurance and reinsurance products. We and our affiliates may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these or other areas from government agencies or authorities. We are cooperating with these subpoenas and requests for information. For further information, see Item 3 Legal Proceedings. It would be premature to reach any conclusions as to the likely outcome of these matters or the impact on our business or financial results. Potential outcomes could include enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in fines, penalties and or changes in business practices that could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, these investigations may result in changes in laws and regulations affecting the industry in general which could, in turn, also adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by government regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. This regulatory system is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. This regulatory system also addresses authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non financial components of an insurers business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In addition, Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs. Although the United States federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and or administrative policies in several areas, including changes 51 in financial services regulation (e.g. the repeal of the McCarran Ferguson Act) and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. A downgrade in our claims paying and financial strength ratings could significantly reduce our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. Claims paying and financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurers competitive position. Rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. A downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes, because demand for certain of our products in certain markets may be reduced or our ratings could fall below minimum levels required to maintain existing business. Additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and higher borrowing costs may be incurred. If our capital position were to deteriorate or one or more rating agencies were to substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. For example, the frequency or severity of weather related catastrophes in the last two years may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. The ratings are not in any way a measure of protection offered to investors in our securities and should not be relied upon with respect to making an investment in our securities. For further discussion about our ratings, see, Item 1 Business Ratings. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could reduce our profitability. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. Accordingly, fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our profitability. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed income and short term investments, which comprised approximately 94% of the market value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2006. In addition, defaults by third parties, primarily from investments in liquid corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform on their obligations could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. We invest a portion of our assets in equity and real estate related investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our equity and real estate related investments and the realization of net investment income. As a result of these factors, we may not realize an adequate return on our investments, may incur losses on sales of our investments and may be required to write down the value of our investments, which would adversely affect our profitability. The intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive in the foreseeable future. We compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business now offer products for alternative forms of risk protection, including large deductible programs and various forms of self insurance that utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. Continued growth in alternative forms of risk protection could reduce our premium volume. Following the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 and again following the hurricane activity in 2004 and 2005, a number of new insurers and reinsurers were formed to compete in the industry, and a number of existing market participants have raised new capital which may enhance their ability to compete. Our competitive position is based on many factors, including: our perceived overall financial strength, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, geographic scope of business, 52 agent, broker and client relationships, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), speed of claims payment, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees, local presence and our ability to keep pace relative to competitors with changes in technology and information systems. We may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations will be adversely affected. See Item 1 Business Competition. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future dividends. We are a holding company and rely in part on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. We and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. This regulation generally provides that transactions among companies within the holding company system must be fair and reasonable. Transfers of assets among affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries and certain material transactions between companies within the system may require prior notice to, or prior approval by, state regulatory authorities. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us also is restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the nature of and limitation on investments, the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders and shareholders, the nature and extent of required participation in insurance guaranty funds and the involuntary assumption of hard to place or high risk insurance business, primarily in workers compensation insurance lines. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future dividends. Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds, second injury funds, catastrophe funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. Guaranty fund assessments have leveled off in the recent year and, in certain states, have begun to decrease. These assessments may, however, increase in the future if additional insolvencies occur. Many states also have laws that established second injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury which are funded by either assessments based on paid losses or premium surcharge mechanisms. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in various states, our insurance subsidiaries must participate in mandatory property and casualty shared market mechanisms or pooling arrangements, which provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage from private insurers. The effect of these assessments and mandatory shared market mechanisms or changes in them could adversely affect profitability or limit our ability to grow our business. Loss or significant restriction of the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of Personal Insurance products could reduce our future profitability. In Personal Insurance, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. Some consumer groups and regulators have 53 questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. Laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could adversely affect our future profitability. Disruptions to our relationships with our distributors, independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. We market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. An important part of our business is written through fewer than a dozen such intermediaries. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could adversely affect our future business volume and profitability. We discontinued paying contingent commissions on excess casualty and umbrella business effective September 30, 2006. In addition, we discontinued paying contingent commissions for homeowners multi peril, private passenger automobile physical damage, private passenger automobile no fault, other private passenger automobile liability, boiler and machinery and financial guaranty insurance lines effective January 1, 2007. We have developed alternative compensation arrangements for these lines of business that compensate our brokers and agents in a manner that differentiates for business performance and is consistent with all applicable laws. Should these alternative compensation arrangements not be accepted in the marketplace, the resulting loss of business could adversely affect our future business volume and profitability. We increasingly rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of its products through independent agents and brokers. In addition, in some instances, those agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our respective personal insurance or commercial insurance products. Should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms develop among our independent agents and brokers, the loss of business could adversely affect our future business volume and profitability. If we experience difficulties with outsourcing relationships, technology and or data security our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted. We outsource certain technology functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. In addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the United States might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the United States. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. Our business is highly dependent upon our employees ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as Internet support and 24 hour call centers, processing new and renewal business, and processing and paying claims. A shut down of, or inability to, access one or more of our facilities, a power outage, or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. These increased risks and expanding regulatory requirements could expose us to data loss, damages and 54 significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On July 23, 2004, the Company announced that it was seeking guidance from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to the appropriate purchase accounting treatment for certain second quarter 2004 adjustments totaling $1.63 billion ($1.07 billion after tax). The Company recorded these adjustments as charges in its consolidated statement of income in the second quarter of 2004. Through an informal comment process, the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance has subsequently asked for further information, which the Company has provided. Specifically, the staff has asked for information concerning the Companys adjustments to certain of SPCs insurance reserves and reserves for reinsurance recoverables and premiums due from policyholders, and how those adjustments may relate to SPCs reserves for periods prior to the merger of SPC and TPC. After reviewing the staffs questions and comments and discussions with the Companys independent auditors, the Company continues to believe that its accounting treatment for these adjustments is appropriate. If, however, the staff disagrees, some or all of the adjustments being discussed may not be recorded as charges in the Companys consolidated statement of income, thereby increasing net income for the second quarter and full year 2004 and increasing shareholders equity at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, in each case by the approximate after tax amount of the change. The effect on tangible shareholders equity (adjusted for the effects of deferred taxes associated with goodwill and intangible assets) at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 would not be material. Increases to goodwill and deferred tax liabilities would be reflected on the Companys balance sheet as of April 1, 2004, either due to purchase accounting or adjustment of SPCs reserves prior to the merger of SPC and TPC. On May 3, 2006, the Company received a letter from the Division of Enforcement of the SEC (the Division) advising the Company that it is conducting an inquiry relating to the second quarter 2004 adjustments and the April 1, 2004 merger between SPC and TPC. The Company is cooperating with the Divisions requests for information. Item 2. PROPERTIES The Company owns its corporate headquarters buildings located at 385 Washington Street and 130 West Sixth Street, St. Paul, Minnesota. These buildings are adjacent to one another and consist of approximately 1.1 million square feet of gross floor space. The Company also owns six buildings in Hartford, Connecticut. The Company currently occupies approximately 1.8 million square feet of office space in these buildings. The Company also owns other real property, which includes office buildings in Denver, Colorado, Fall River, Massachusetts and Irving, Texas, and a data center located in Norcross, Georgia. In January 2007, the Company acquired a building and adjacent land in Windsor, Connecticut. The Company leases 196 field and claim offices totaling approximately 5.1 million square feet throughout the United States under leases or subleases with third parties. The Company owns a building in London, England, which houses a portion of its operations in the United Kingdom. 55 The Company, through its subsidiaries, owns an investment portfolio of income producing properties and real estate funds. Included in this portfolio are four office buildings in which the Company holds a 50% ownership interest located in New York, New York, which collectively accounted for approximately 15% of the carrying value of the property portfolio at December 31, 2006. In the opinion of the Companys management, the Companys properties are adequate and suitable for its business as presently conducted and are adequately maintained. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS This section describes the major pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the Companys property is subject. Asbestos and Environmental Related Proceedings In the ordinary course of its insurance business, the Company receives claims for insurance arising under policies issued by the Company asserting alleged injuries and damages from asbestos, hazardous waste and other toxic substances that are the subject of related coverage litigation, including, among others, the litigation described below. The Company continues to be subject to aggressive asbestos related litigation. The conditions surrounding the final resolution of these claims and the related litigation continue to change. Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) is involved in three significant proceedings (including a bankruptcy proceeding) relating to ACandS, Inc. (ACandS), formerly a national distributor and installer of products containing asbestos. The proceedings involve disputes as to whether and to what extent any of ACandS potential liabilities for current or future bodily injury asbestos claims are covered by insurance policies issued by TPC. The status of the various proceedings is described below. ACandS filed for bankruptcy in September 2002 (In re: ACandS, Inc., pending in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware). In its proposed plan of reorganization, ACandS sought to establish a trust to pay asbestos bodily injury claims against it and sought to assign to the trust its rights under the insurance policies issued by TPC. The proposed plan and disclosure statement filed by ACandS claimed that ACandS had settled the vast majority of asbestos related bodily injury claims currently pending against it for approximately $2.80 billion. ACandS asserts that, based on a prior agreement between TPC and ACandS and ACandS interpretation of the July 31, 2003 arbitration panel ruling described below, TPC is liable for 45% of the $2.80 billion. On January 26, 2004, the bankruptcy court issued a decision rejecting confirmation of ACandS proposed plan of reorganization. The bankruptcy court found, consistent with TPCs objections to ACandS proposed plan, that the proposed plan was not fundamentally fair, was not proposed in good faith and did not comply with Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code. ACandS has filed a notice of appeal of the bankruptcy courts decision and has filed objections to the bankruptcy courts findings of fact and conclusions of law in the United States District Court. TPC has moved to dismiss the appeal and objections and has also filed an opposition to ACandS objections. An arbitration was commenced in January 2001 to determine whether and to what extent ACandS financial obligations for bodily injury asbestos claims are subject to insurance policy aggregate limits. On July 31, 2003, the arbitration panel ruled in favor of TPC that asbestos bodily injury claims against ACandS are subject to the aggregate limits of the policies issued to ACandS, which have been exhausted. In October 2003, ACandS commenced a lawsuit seeking to vacate the arbitration award as beyond the panels scope of authority (ACandS, Inc. v. Travelers Casualty and Surety Co., U.S.D.Ct. E.D. Pa.). On September 16, 2004, the district court entered an order denying ACandS motion to vacate the arbitration award. On January 19, 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed the district courts decision and declared the arbitration award void on procedural grounds. On May 22, 2006, the 56 United States Supreme Court denied TPCs petition for a writ of certiorari seeking review of the Third Circuits decision. As a result, the matter has been remanded to district court and TPC has asked the district court to remand the arbitration to the panel that initially ruled in favor of TPC for further proceedings consistent with the Third Circuits decision. ACandS has opposed that request. In the other proceeding, a related case pending before the same court and commenced in September 2000 (ACandS v. Travelers Casualty and Surety Co., U.S.D.Ct., E.D. Pa.), ACandS sought a declaration of the extent to which the asbestos bodily injury claims against ACandS are subject to occurrence limits under insurance policies issued by TPC. TPC filed a motion to dismiss this action based upon the July 31, 2003 arbitration decision described above. The district court found the dispute was moot as a result of the arbitration panels decision and dismissed the case. As a result of the January 19, 2006 ruling by the Third Circuit and the Supreme Courts denial of certiorari, described in the paragraph above, this case has been reinstated. The Company continues to believe it has meritorious positions in these ACandS related proceedings and intends to litigate vigorously. In October 2001 and April 2002, two purported class action suits (Wise v. Travelers and Meninger v. Travelers) were filed against TPC and other insurers (not including SPC) in state court in West Virginia. These cases were subsequently consolidated into a single proceeding in the Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia. Plaintiffs allege that the insurer defendants engaged in unfair trade practices by inappropriately handling and settling asbestos claims. The plaintiffs seek to reopen large numbers of settled asbestos claims and to impose liability for damages, including punitive damages, directly on insurers. Lawsuits similar to Wise were filed in Massachusetts and Hawaii (these suits are collectively referred to as the Statutory and Hawaii Actions). Also, in November 2001, plaintiffs in consolidated asbestos actions pending before a mass tort panel of judges in West Virginia state court moved to amend their complaint to name TPC as a defendant, alleging that TPC and other insurers breached alleged duties to certain users of asbestos products. In March 2002, the court granted the motion to amend. Plaintiffs seek damages, including punitive damages. Lawsuits seeking similar relief and raising allegations similar to those presented in the West Virginia amended complaint are also pending in Texas state court against TPC and SPC, and in Louisiana state court against TPC (the claims asserted in these suits, together with the West Virginia suit, are collectively referred to as the Common Law Claims). Lawsuits seeking similar relief in Ohio have been dismissed. All of the actions against TPC described in the preceding paragraph, other than the Hawaii Actions, had been subject to a temporary restraining order entered by the federal bankruptcy court in New York that had previously presided over and approved the reorganization in bankruptcy of TPCs former policyholder Johns Manville Corporation and affiliated entities. In August 2002, the bankruptcy court held a hearing on TPCs motion for a preliminary injunction prohibiting further prosecution of the lawsuits pursuant to the reorganization plan and related orders. At the conclusion of this hearing, the court ordered the parties to mediation, appointed a mediator and continued the temporary restraining order. During 2003, the same bankruptcy court extended the existing injunction to apply to an additional set of cases filed in various state courts in Texas and Ohio as well as to the attorneys who are prosecuting these cases. The order also enjoined these attorneys and their respective law firms from commencing any further lawsuits against TPC based upon these allegations without the prior approval of the court. Notwithstanding the injunction, additional Common Law Claims were filed and served on TPC. On November 19, 2003, the parties advised the bankruptcy court that a settlement of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions had been reached. This settlement includes a lump sum payment of up to $412 million by TPC, subject to a number of significant contingencies. After continued meetings with the mediator, the parties advised the bankruptcy court on May 25, 2004 that a settlement resolving substantially all pending and similar future Common Law Claims against TPC had also been reached. This settlement requires a 57 payment of up to $90 million by TPC, subject to a number of significant contingencies. Each of these settlements is contingent upon, among other things, an order of the bankruptcy court clarifying that all of these claims, and similar future asbestos related claims against TPC, are barred by prior orders entered by the bankruptcy court in connection with the original Johns Manville bankruptcy proceedings. On August 17, 2004, the bankruptcy court entered an order approving the settlements and clarifying its prior orders that all of the pending Statutory and Hawaii Actions and substantially all Common Law Claims pending against TPC are barred. The order also applies to similar direct action claims that may be filed in the future. Four appeals were taken from the August 17, 2004 ruling. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders that required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Judgment was entered on March 31, 2006. Five appeals from the March 29, 2006 ruling were filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and TPC filed a cross appeal. Two appellants voluntarily dismissed their appeals and a motion to dismiss the cross appeal was filed. Additionally, TPC appealed from a procedural order of the district court relating to the timeliness of the cross appeal. On January 17, 2007, the Second Circuit dismissed TPCs cross appeal and denied TPCs appeal from the procedural order. The three remaining principal appeals have been consolidated for disposition and remain pending. It is not possible to predict how the appellate court will rule on the pending appeals. The Company has no obligation to pay any of the settlement amounts unless and until the orders and relief become final and are not subject to any further appellate review. SPC, which is not covered by the bankruptcy court rulings or the settlements described above, has numerous defenses in all of the direct action cases asserting Common Law Claims that are pending against it. SPCs defenses include the fact that these novel theories have no basis in law; that they are directly at odds with the well established law pertaining to the insured/insurer relationship; that there is no generalized duty to warn as alleged by the plaintiffs; and that the applicable statute of limitations as to many of these claims has long since expired. Many of these defenses have been raised in initial motions to dismiss filed by SPC and other insurers. There have been favorable rulings during 2003 and 2004 in Texas and during 2004 and 2005 in Ohio on some of these motions filed by SPC and other insurers that dealt with statute of limitations and the validity of the alleged causes of actions. On May 26, 2005, the Court of Appeals of Ohio, Eighth District, affirmed the earliest of these favorable rulings. In Texas, only one court, in June of 2005, has denied the insurers initial challenges to the pleadings. That ruling was contrary to the rulings by other courts in similar cases, and SPC and the other insurer defendants have filed a mandamus petition with the Texas Court of Appeals. The Company is defending its asbestos and environmental related litigation vigorously and believes that it has meritorious defenses; however, the outcome of these disputes is uncertain. In this regard, the Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive resolution strategies to manage asbestos and environmental loss exposure, including settling litigation under appropriate circumstances. For a discussion of other information regarding the Companys asbestos and environmental exposure, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation, Environmental Claims and Litigation and Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves. Currently, it is not possible to predict legal outcomes and their impact on the future development of claims and litigation relating to asbestos and environmental claims. Any such development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. Because of these uncertainties, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In 58 addition, the Companys estimate of ultimate claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys results of operations in future periods. Shareholder Litigation and Related Proceedings Three actions against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors are pending in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota. Two of these actions, which were originally captioned Kahn v. The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc., et al. (Nov. 2, 2004) and Michael A. Bernstein Profit Sharing Plan v. The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc., et al. (Nov. 10, 2004), are putative class actions brought by certain shareholders of the Company against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors. These actions have been consolidated as In re St. Paul Travelers Securities Litigation II, and a lead plaintiff and lead counsel have been appointed. On July 11, 2005, the lead plaintiff filed an amended consolidated complaint. The amended consolidated complaint alleges violations of federal securities laws in connection with the Companys alleged failure to make disclosure relating to the practice of paying brokers commissions on a contingent basis, the Companys alleged involvement in a conspiracy to rig bids and the Companys allegedly improper use of finite reinsurance products. On September 26, 2005, the Company and the other defendants in In re St. Paul Travelers Securities Litigation II moved to dismiss the amended consolidated complaint for failure to state a claim. Oral argument on the Companys motion to dismiss was presented on June 15, 2006. By order dated September 25, 2006, the Court denied the Companys motion to dismiss. Discovery has commenced. On November 3, 2006, the Company and the other defendants in In re St. Paul Travelers Securities Litigation II moved for partial judgment on the pleadings seeking dismissal of the allegations relating to the allegedly improper use of finite reinsurance products. That motion remains pending. In the third action, an alleged beneficiary of the Companys 401(k) savings plan commenced a putative class action against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors captioned Spiziri v. The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc., et al. (Dec. 28, 2004). The complaint alleges violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act based on the theory that defendants were allegedly aware of issues concerning the value of SPCs loss reserves yet failed to protect plan participants from continued investment in Company stock. On June 1, 2005, the Company and the other defendants in Spiziri moved to dismiss the complaint. On January 4, 2006, the parties in Spiziri entered into a stipulation of settlement. The settlement remains subject to court approval. In addition, two derivative actions have been brought in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota against all of the Companys current directors and certain of the Companys former Directors, naming the Company as a nominal defendant: Rowe v. Fishman, et al. (Oct. 22, 2004) and Clark v. Fishman, et al. (Nov. 18, 2004). The derivative actions have been consolidated for pretrial proceedings as Rowe, et al. v. Fishman, et al. and a consolidated derivative complaint has been filed. The consolidated derivative complaint asserts state law claims, including breach of fiduciary duty, based on allegations similar to those alleged in In re St. Paul Travelers Securities Litigation II and Spiziri described above. On March 23, 2006, the Court dismissed the complaint without prejudice and, on March 30, 2006, entered judgment in favor of the Company and the other defendants. On June 5, 2006, plaintiffs in Rowe moved to alter or amend the judgment for leave to file an amended complaint. The Company and the other defendants opposed that motion. On November 1, 2006, the parties in Rowe entered into a stipulation of settlement whereby plaintiffs released the Company and other defendants from liability in exchange for an agreement by defendants to adopt certain corporate governance measures for the benefit of the Company. The settlement remains subject to court approval. The Company believes that the pending lawsuits have no merit and intends to defend vigorously; however, the Company is not able to provide any assurance that the financial impact of one or more of these proceedings will not be material to the Companys results of operations in a future period. The 59 Company is obligated to indemnify its officers and directors to the extent provided under Minnesota law. As part of that obligation, the Company will advance officers and directors attorneys fees and other expenses they incur in defending these lawsuits. Other Proceedings From time to time, the Company is involved in proceedings addressing disputes with its reinsurers regarding the collection of amounts due under the Companys reinsurance agreements. These proceedings may be initiated by the Company or the reinsurers and may involve the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the coverage of particular claims, exclusions under the agreements, as well as counterclaims for rescission of the agreements. One of these disputes is the action described in the following paragraphs. The Companys Gulf operation brought an action on May 22, 2003, as amended on May 12, 2004, in the Supreme Court of New York, County of New York (Gulf Insurance Company v. Transatlantic Reinsurance Company, et al.), against Transatlantic Reinsurance Company (Transatlantic), XL Reinsurance America, Inc. (XL), Odyssey America Reinsurance Corporation (Odyssey), Employers Reinsurance Company (Employers) and Gerling Global Reinsurance Corporation of America (Gerling), to recover amounts due under reinsurance contracts issued to Gulf and related to Gulfs February 2003 settlement of a coverage dispute under a vehicle residual value protection insurance policy. The reinsurers have asserted counterclaims seeking rescission of the vehicle residual value reinsurance contracts issued to Gulf and unspecified damages for breach of contract. Separate actions filed by Transatlantic and Gerling have been consolidated with the original Gulf action for pre trial purposes. On October 1, 2003, Gulf entered into a final settlement agreement with Employers, and all claims and counterclaims with respect to Employers have been dismissed. On May 26, 2004, the Court denied Gulfs motion to dismiss certain claims asserted by Transatlantic and denied a joint motion by Transatlantic, XL and Odyssey for summary judgment against Gulf. On December 22, 2006, Gulf and XL entered into a final settlement agreement which resolves all claims between Gulf and XL under the reinsurance agreements at issue in the litigation. Fact and expert discovery are complete with respect to the remaining parties: Transatlantic, Odyssey and Gerling. Gulf, Transatlantic and Gerling have filed motions for partial summary judgment. The Court has not yet set a trial date. Gulf denies the reinsurers allegations, believes that it has a strong legal basis to collect the amounts due under the reinsurance contracts and intends to vigorously pursue the actions. Based on the Companys beliefs about its legal positions in its various reinsurance recovery proceedings, the Company does not expect any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations in a future period. The Company is a defendant in three consolidated lawsuits in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana arising out of disputes with certain policyholders over whether insurance coverage is available for flood losses arising from Hurricane Katrina: Chehardy, et al. v. State Farm, et al., C.A. No. 06 1672, 06 1673 and 06 1674, Vanderbrook, et al. v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., et al. C.A. No. 05 6323; and Xavier University of Louisiana v. Travelers Property Ca. Co. of America, C.A. No. 06 516. Chehardy and Vanderbrook are proposed class actions in which the Company is one of several insurer defendants. Xavier is an individual suit involving a property insurance policy brought by one of the Companys insureds. The losses involved in all of these suits allegedly were caused by the failure of the New Orleans levees. On November 27, 2006, the Court issued a ruling in the three consolidated cases denying the motions of the Company and certain other insurers for a summary disposition of the cases. The Courts ruling does not determine that any additional amounts are owed under any of the Companys policies or otherwise reach the merits of the policyholders claims. The Company disagrees with the ruling and, along with certain other insurers named in the consolidated lawsuits, filed a motion with the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, seeking to have the Court of Appeals accept an immediate appeal from the District Courts ruling. On February 1, 2007, the Fifth Circuit accepted the appeal. 60 As part of ongoing, industry wide investigations, the Company and its affiliates have received subpoenas and written requests for information from government agencies and authorities. The areas of pending inquiry addressed to the Company include its relationship with brokers and agents, and the Companys involvement with non traditional insurance and reinsurance products. The Company or its affiliates have received subpoenas or requests for information, in each case with respect to one or both of the areas described above, from: (i) State of California Office of the Attorney General; (ii) State of California Department of Insurance; (iii) Licensing and Market Conduct Compliance Division, Financial Services Commission of Ontario, Canada; (iv) State of Connecticut Insurance Department; (v) State of Connecticut Office of the Attorney General; (vi) State of Delaware Department of Insurance; (vii) State of Florida Department of Financial Services; (viii) State of Florida Office of Insurance Regulation; (ix) State of Florida Department of Legal Affairs Office of the Attorney General; (x) State of Georgia Office of the Commissioner of Insurance; (xi) State of Hawaii Office of the Attorney General; (xii) State of Illinois Office of the Attorney General; (xiii) State of Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation; (xiv) State of Iowa Insurance Division; (xv) State of Maryland Office of the Attorney General; (xvi) State of Maryland Insurance Administration; (xvii) Commonwealth of Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General; (xviii) State of Minnesota Department of Commerce; (xix) State of Minnesota Office of the Attorney General; (xx) State of New Hampshire Insurance Department; (xxi) State of New York Office of the Attorney General; (xxii) State of New York Insurance Department; (xxiii) State of North Carolina Department of Insurance; (xxiv) State of Ohio Office of the Attorney General; (xxv) State of Ohio Department of Insurance; (xxvi) State of Oregon Department of Justice; (xxvii) Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Office of the Attorney General; (xxviii) State of Texas Office of the Attorney General; (xxvix) State of Texas Department of Insurance; (xxx) Commonwealth of Virginia Office of the Attorney General; (xxxi) State of Washington Office of the Insurance Commissioner; (xxxii) State of West Virginia Office of Attorney General; (xxxiii) the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York; (xxxiv) the United States Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury; and (xxxv) the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company and its affiliates may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to the areas described above from other agencies or authorities. The Company is cooperating with these subpoenas and requests for information. In addition, outside counsel, with the oversight of the Companys Board of Directors, has been conducting an internal review of certain of the Companys business practices. This review initially focused on the Companys relationship with brokers and was commenced after the announcement of litigation brought by the New York Attorney Generals office against a major broker. The internal review was expanded to address the various requests for information described above and to verify whether the Companys business practices in these areas have been appropriate. The Companys review has been extensive, involving the examination of e mails and underwriting files, as well as interviews of current and former employees. The Company also continues to receive and respond to additional requests for information and will expand its review accordingly. To date, the Company has found only a few instances of conduct that were inconsistent with the Companys employee code of conduct. The Company has responded, and will continue to respond, appropriately to any such conduct. The Companys internal review with respect to finite reinsurance considered finite products the Company both purchased and sold. The Company has completed its review with respect to the identified finite products purchased and sold, and has concluded that no adjustment to previously issued financial statements is required. Except as settled as previously disclosed, the industry wide investigations described above are ongoing, as are the Companys efforts to cooperate with the authorities, and the various authorities could ask that additional work be performed or reach conclusions different from the Companys. Accordingly, it would be premature to reach any conclusions as to the likely outcome of these matters. 61 Four putative class action lawsuits are pending against a number of insurance brokers and insurers, including the Company and or certain of its affiliates, by plaintiffs who allegedly purchased insurance products through one or more of the defendant brokers. Plaintiffs allege that various insurance brokers conspired with each other and with various insurers, including the Company and or certain of its affiliates, to artificially inflate premiums, allocate brokerage customers and rig bids for insurance products offered to those customers. The complaints are captioned: Redwood Oil Company v. Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., et al. (N.D. Ill. Jan. 21, 2005), Boros v. Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., et al. (N.D. Cal. Feb. 4, 2005), Mulcahy v. Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., et al. (D.N.J. Feb. 23, 2005) and Golden Gate Bridge, Highway, and Transportation District v. Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., et al. (D.N.J. Feb. 23, 2005). To the extent they were not originally filed there, the federal class actions were transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey and have been consolidated with other class actions under the caption In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation, a multidistrict litigation proceeding in that District. On August 1, 2005, various plaintiffs, including the four named plaintiffs in the above referenced class actions, filed an amended consolidated class action complaint naming various brokers and insurers, including the Company and certain of its affiliates, on behalf of a putative nationwide class of policyholders. The complaint includes causes of action under the Sherman Act, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), state common law and the laws of the various states prohibiting antitrust violations. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages, including punitive damages and trebled damages, permanent injunctive relief, restitution, including disgorgement of profits, interest and costs, including attorneys fees. On November 29, 2005, all defendants moved to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. Oral arguments on the defendants motion to dismiss were heard on July 26, 2006. On October 3, 2006, the court ruled that the complaint failed to plead actionable claims under the Sherman Act or RICO, provided plaintiffs an opportunity to replead those claims and reserved decision with respect to remaining state law claims. On November 30, 2006, defendants renewed their motions to dismiss. On February 13, 2006, the named plaintiffs moved to certify a nationwide class consisting of all persons who between August 26, 1994 and the date of class certification engaged the services of a broker defendant (or related entity) in connection with the procurement or renewal of insurance and who entered into or renewed a contract of insurance with one or more of the insurer defendants, including the Company. The renewed motion to dismiss and class certification motion remain pending. Also, additional individual actions have been brought in state and federal courts against the Company involving allegations similar to those in In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation and further actions may be brought. The Company believes that all of these lawsuits have no merit and intends to defend vigorously. In addition to those described above, the Company is involved in numerous lawsuits, not involving asbestos and environmental claims, arising mostly in the ordinary course of business operations either as a liability insurer defending third party claims brought against policyholders, or as an insurer defending claims brought against it relating to coverage or the Companys business practices. While the ultimate resolution of these legal proceedings could be material to the Companys results of operations in a future period, in the opinion of the Companys management, none would likely have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or liquidity. On July 23, 2004, the Company announced that it was seeking guidance from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to the appropriate purchase accounting treatment for certain second quarter 2004 adjustments totaling $1.63 billion ($1.07 billion after tax). The Company recorded these adjustments as charges in its consolidated statement of income in the second quarter of 2004. Through an informal comment process, the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance has subsequently asked for further information, which the Company has provided. Specifically, the staff has asked for information concerning the Companys adjustments to certain of SPCs insurance reserves and reserves for reinsurance recoverables and premiums due from policyholders, and how those adjustments may relate to SPCs reserves for periods prior to the merger of SPC and TPC. After reviewing the staffs 62 questions and comments, the Company continues to believe that its accounting treatment for these adjustments is appropriate. If, however, the staff disagrees, some or all of the adjustments being discussed may not be recorded as charges in the Companys consolidated statement of income, thereby increasing net income for the second quarter and full year 2004 and increasing shareholders equity at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, in each case by the approximate after tax amount of the change. The effect on tangible shareholders equity (adjusted for the effects of deferred taxes associated with goodwill and intangible assets) at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 would not be material. Increases to goodwill and deferred tax liabilities would be reflected on the Companys balance sheet as of April 1, 2004, either due to purchase accounting or adjustment of SPCs reserves prior to the merger of SPC and TPC. On May 3, 2006, the Company received a letter from the Division of Enforcement of the SEC (the Division) advising the Company that it is conducting an inquiry relating to the second quarter 2004 adjustments and the April 1, 2004 merger of SPC and TPC. The Company is cooperating with the Divisions requests for information. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS NONE. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information about the Companys executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Report. 63 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Companys common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, where it is assigned the symbol TRV. The number of holders of record, including individual owners, of the Companys common stock was 89,234 as of February 15, 2007. This is not the actual number of beneficial owners of the Companys common stock, as shares are held in street name by brokers and others on behalf of individual owners. The following table sets forth the amount of cash dividends declared per share and the high and low closing sales prices of the Companys common stock for each quarter during the last two fiscal years. High Low Cash Dividend Declared 2006 First Quarter $ 47.65 $ 40.75 $ 0.23 Second Quarter 45.86 41.02 0.26 Third Quarter 47.39 42.62 0.26 Fourth Quarter 54.23 46.43 0.26 2005 First Quarter $ 39.40 $ 35.89 $ 0.22 Second Quarter 39.87 33.71 0.23 Third Quarter 45.14 39.60 0.23 Fourth Quarter 46.70 41.37 0.23 The Company paid cash dividends per share of $1.01 in 2006 and $0.91 in 2005. Future dividend decisions will be based on and affected by a number of factors, including the operating results and financial requirements of the Company and the impact of dividend restrictions. For information on dividends, including dividend restrictions included in certain long term loan or credit agreements of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as restrictions on the ability of certain of the Companys subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Company in the form of cash dividends or otherwise, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Dividends will be paid by the Company only if declared by its Board of Directors out of funds legally available, and subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. 64 SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph shows a five year comparison of the cumulative total return for the Companys common stock and the common stock of companies included in the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Property & Casualty Index, which the Company believes is the most appropriate comparative index. (1) Assumes $100 invested in common shares of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. on December 31, 2001. The performance reflected is that of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. only until the date of the merger (April 1, 2004), and is that of The Travelers Companies, Inc. thereafter. (2) Companies in the S&P Property Casualty Index as of December 31, 2006 were the following: The Travelers Companies, Inc., ACE Ltd., AMBAC Financial Group, Inc., Safeco Corporation, The Chubb Corporation, Cincinnati Financial Corporation, Progressive Corporation, Allstate Corporation, MBIA, Inc. and XL Capital, Ltd. Returns of each of the companies included in this index have been weighted according to their respective market capitalizations. 65 ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The table below sets forth information regarding repurchases by the Company of its common stock during the periods indicated. Period Beginning Period Ending Total number of shares purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Maximum dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs Oct. 1, 2006 Oct. 31, 2006 1,192,313 $ 50.55 987,400 $ 1,578,980,445 Nov. 1, 2006 Nov. 30, 2006 10,703,006 51.93 10,358,536 1,040,954,588 Dec. 1, 2006 Dec. 31, 2006 3,135,134 52.73 3,073,625 878,945,168 Total 15,030,453 $ 51.99 14,419,561 $ 878,945,168 The Company repurchased 610,892 shares that were not part of the publicly announced share repurchase program, representing shares repurchased to cover payroll withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options, and shares used to cover the exercise price of certain stock options that were exercised. The Companys $2 billion share repurchase program (the program), which has no expiration date, was approved and announced by the Companys Board of Directors on May 2, 2006. During 2006, the Company repurchased a total of 22.8 million shares for a total cost of $1.12 billion under the program, and had $879 million of remaining capacity under the program at December 31, 2006. In January 2007, the Companys board of directors authorized a $3 billion increase to the program. 66 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA All data in the following table for 2002 and 2003 represent historical data for TPC. For accounting purposes, the merger of SPC and TPC was accounted for as a reverse acquisition with TPC treated as the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, this transaction was accounted for as a purchase business combination, using TPCs historical financial information and applying fair value estimates to the acquired assets, liabilities and commitments of SPC as of April 1, 2004. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in the future. At and for the year ended December 31,(1) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (in millions, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 25,090 $ 24,365 $ 22,544 $ 15,139 $ 14,270 Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principles $ 4,208 $ 2,061 $ 867 $ 1,696 $ 216 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net of tax(2) (243 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (439 ) 88 Net income (loss) $ 4,208 $ 1,622 $ 955 $ 1,696 $ (27 ) Total investments $ 72,268 $ 68,287 $ 64,368 $ 38,653 $ 38,425 Total assets 113,761 113,187 111,246 64,872 64,138 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves 59,288 61,090 59,070 34,573 33,736 Total debt 5,760 5,850 6,313 2,675 2,544 Total liabilities 88,626 90,884 90,045 52,885 53,100 Company obligated mandatorily redeemable securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated debt securities of TIGHI 900 Total shareholders equity 25,135 22,303 21,201 11,987 10,137 Basic earnings (loss) per share:(3) Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principles $ 6.12 $ 3.04 $ 1.42 $ 3.91 $ 0.52 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net of tax (0.59 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations(4) (0.65 ) 0.14 Net income (loss) 6.12 2.39 1.56 3.91 (0.07 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share:(3) Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principles $ 5.91 $ 2.95 $ 1.40 $ 3.80 $ 0.52 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net of tax (0.59 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations(4) (0.62 ) 0.13 Net income (loss) 5.91 2.33 1.53 3.80 (0.07 ) Year end common shares outstanding(3)(5) 678.3 693.4 670.3 435.8 435.1 Per common share data: Cash dividends(3)(6) $ 1.01 $ 0.91 $ 1.16 $ 0.65 $ 12.07 Book value(3) $ 36.86 $ 31.94 $ 31.35 $ 27.51 $ 23.30 (1) On April 1, 2004, Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) merged with a subsidiary of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (SPC), as a result of which TPC became a wholly owned subsidiary of SPC and SPC changed its name to The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. On February 26, 2007, the name of the Company was changed to The Travelers Companies, Inc. (2) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net of tax consisted of a loss of $243 million as a result of a change in accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets. 67 (3) Earnings per share, year end common shares outstanding, cash dividends per share and book value per share were restated for the years prior to 2004 to reflect the impact of the merger with SPC. (4) In August 2005, the Company completed its divestiture of Nuveen Investments, Inc., its asset management subsidiary acquired in the merger. Accordingly, the Companys share of Nuveen Investments results prior to divestiture was classified as discontinued operations, along with the net after tax loss on disposal. Prior period results were reclassified to be consistent with the 2005 presentation. (5) In March 2002, TPC issued common stock through its Initial Public Offering (IPO). TPC issued 231 million shares of its class A common stock, representing approximately 23% of TPCs common equity. After the IPO, Citigroup Inc. beneficially owned all of the 500 million shares of TPCs outstanding class B common stock, each share of which was entitled to seven votes, and 269 million shares of TPCs class A common stock, each share of which was entitled to one vote, representing at the time 94% of the combined voting power of all classes of TPCs voting securities and 77% of the equity interest in TPC. On August 20, 2002, Citigroup made a tax free distribution to its stockholders (the Citigroup Distribution), of a portion of its ownership interest in TPC, which, together with the shares issued in the IPO, represented more than 90% of TPCs common equity and more than 90% of the combined voting power of TPCs outstanding voting securities. Citigroup received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the Citigroup Distribution was tax free to Citigroup, its stockholders and TPC. As part of the ruling process, Citigroup agreed to vote the shares it continued to hold of TPC following the Citigroup Distribution pro rata with the shares held by the public and to divest the remaining shares it holds within five years following the Citigroup Distribution. After the merger, this undertaking also applied to shares of Company common stock. At December 31, 2006, Citigroup held for its own account none of the Companys outstanding common stock. (6) Dividends per common share reflect the recapitalization effected as part of TPCs corporate reorganization in 2002. During 2002, TPC paid dividends of $5.10 billion in the form of a note payable and $158 million in cash to Citigroup, its then sole shareholder. 68 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company). On April 1, 2004, Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) merged with a subsidiary of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (SPC), as a result of which TPC became a wholly owned subsidiary of SPC, and SPC changed its name to The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. For accounting purposes, this transaction was accounted for as a reverse acquisition with TPC treated as the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, this transaction was accounted for as a purchase business combination, using TPC historical financial information and applying fair value estimates to the acquired assets, liabilities, and commitments of SPC as of April 1, 2004. Beginning on April 1, 2004, the results of operations and financial condition of SPC were consolidated with TPCs. Accordingly, all financial information presented herein for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 reflects the consolidated accounts of SPC and TPC. The financial information presented herein for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 reflects only the accounts of TPC for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and the consolidated accounts of SPC and TPC for the nine months ended December 31, 2004. Effective February 26, 2007, The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. changed its name to The Travelers Companies, Inc. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 2006 Consolidated Results of Operations Income from continuing operations and net income of $4.21 billion, or $6.12 per share basic and $5.91 diluted Net favorable prior year reserve development of $394 million pretax ($255 million after tax) Net earned premiums of $20.76 billion GAAP combined ratio of 88.1% Pretax net investment income of $3.52 billion ($2.71 billion after tax) 2006 Consolidated Financial Condition Total assets of $113.76 billion, up $574 million from December 31, 2005 Total investments of $72.27 billion, up $3.98 billion from December 31, 2005; fixed maturities and short term securities comprise 94% of total investments Total debt of $5.76 billion, down $90 million from December 31, 2005 Repurchased 22.8 million common shares for total cost of $1.12 billion under share repurchase program Shareholders equity of $25.14 billion, up $2.83 billion from December 31, 2005; book value per common share of $36.86, up $4.92 from December 31, 2005 CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW The Company provides a wide range of property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals, primarily in the United States and in selected International markets. 69 Consolidated Results of Operations For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues Premiums $ 20,760 $ 20,341 $ 19,038 Net investment income 3,517 3,165 2,663 Fee income 591 664 706 Net realized investment gains (losses) 11 17 (39 ) Other revenues 211 178 176 Total revenues 25,090 24,365 22,544 Claims and expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses 12,244 14,927 15,439 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 3,339 3,252 2,978 General and administrative expenses 3,458 3,229 2,945 Interest expense 324 286 236 Total claims and expenses 19,365 21,694 21,598 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 5,725 2,671 946 Income tax expense 1,517 610 69 Minority interest, net of tax 10 Income from continuing operations 4,208 2,061 867 Discontinued operations: Operating income (loss), net of taxes (663 ) 88 Gain on disposal, net of taxes 224 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (439 ) 88 Net income $ 4,208 $ 1,622 $ 955 Income from continuing operations per share Basic $ 6.12 $ 3.04 $ 1.42 Diluted(1) $ 5.91 $ 2.95 $ 1.40 GAAP combined ratio Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 57.5 % 71.9 % 79.4 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.6 29.4 28.3 GAAP combined ratio 88.1 % 101.3 % 107.7 % (1) The weighted average number of common shares used in the diluted earnings per share calculation for the year ended December 31, 2004 excluded the potentially dilutive effect of the Companys convertible junior subordinated notes because their effect was anti dilutive. The Companys discussions related to all items, other than net income, income from continuing operations, income (loss) from discontinued operations, and segment operating income (loss), are presented on a pretax basis, unless otherwise noted. Throughout the following discussion, the Company references the impact of the merger in the context of a comparison between 2005 and 2004, referring to the fact that the Companys 2005 results reflected a full year of combined post merger operations, whereas the Companys 2004 results reflected combined post merger operations for the nine months subsequent to the April 1, 2004 merger date, plus the results of TPC only for the three months ended March 31, 2004. Overview Income from continuing operations in 2006 totaled $4.21 billion, or $5.91 per share diluted, compared with 2005 income from continuing operations of $2.06 billion, or $2.95 per share diluted. The $2.15 billion increase in 2006 operating results reflected a significant decline in catastrophe losses, net favorable prior 70 year reserve development, strong growth in investment income and higher business volume. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income. Catastrophe losses in 2006 totaled $103 million, primarily resulting from several wind, rain, hail and snow storms in the United States, whereas results in 2005 included $2.19 billion of catastrophe costs, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development of $394 million in 2006 primarily resulted from better than expected personal auto bodily injury loss experience and a decline in the frequency of non catastrophe related losses in the Homeowners and Other line of business in the Personal Insurance segment, favorable development on 2005 catastrophe losses in Personal Insurance and continued improvement in liability and property lines of business in the Business Insurance segment. This favorable development was partially offset by unfavorable prior year reserve development primarily related to increases in reserves for asbestos, environmental and certain assumed reinsurance business, all in the Business Insurance segment. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005 of $325 million was driven by a charge to strengthen asbestos reserves, which was partially offset by other non asbestos related net favorable prior year reserve development in all three business segments. Income from continuing operations in 2005 totaled $2.06 billion, or $2.95 per share diluted, compared with income from continuing operations of $867 million, or $1.40 per share diluted, in 2004. The increase in income in 2005 reflected the impact of the merger, improved non catastrophe related current year loss experience in the Companys three reportable business segments, a decline in net unfavorable prior year reserve development and strong growth in net investment income. These factors more than offset a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, which totaled $2.19 billion in 2005, compared with $772 million in 2004. The catastrophe losses in 2004 were primarily the result of four hurricanes that struck the southeastern United States in the third quarter. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005 totaled $325 million, compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $2.39 billion in 2004. The net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2004 was concentrated in the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments. Net unfavorable reserve development in the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments in 2004 more than offset additional income resulting from the merger and strong operating income generated by the Companys Personal Insurance segment. In 2005, the Company sold its equity interest in Nuveen Investments, which constituted its Asset Management segment. The Company recorded a net loss from discontinued operations of $439 million, consisting primarily of $710 million of tax expense which resulted from the difference between the tax basis and the GAAP carrying value of the Companys investment in Nuveen Investments, partially offset by the $224 million after tax gain on the divestiture and the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income for 2005. Income from discontinued operations of $88 million in 2004 represented the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income for the year. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2006 totaled $20.76 billion, an increase of $419 million, or 2%, over the 2005 total of $20.34 billion. Earned premiums in 2006 were negatively impacted by an increase in property catastrophe reinsurance costs. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $121 million of reinstatement premiums, which represent additional premiums payable to reinsurers to maintain coverage limits for certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 9% in 2006 reflected strong new business volume and continued renewal price increases. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2006 declined 2% from the comparable 2005 total, primarily reflecting the impact of business in runoff and the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. Earned premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment in 71 2006 increased 4% over 2005, primarily reflecting growth in Bond & Financial Products and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. The $1.30 billion increase in earned premiums in 2005 over 2004 primarily reflected the impact of the merger, which was partially offset by a significant decline in earned premiums in the Business Insurance segments runoff operations and a decline in certain of Business Insurances ongoing operations due to a lower level of net written premium volume in the last half of 2004 and first half of 2005. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by the $121 million of reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses. Earned premiums in 2004 were reduced by $76 million of reinstatement premiums primarily related to reserve charges recorded in the surety operation. Partially offsetting these factors were the impacts of new business growth and increased retention in many of the Companys insurance operations in 2005. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys investments. (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Average investments(a) $ 71,252 $ 66,695 $ 55,139 Pretax net investment income 3,517 3,165 2,663 After tax net investment income 2,712 2,438 2,020 Average pretax yield(b) 4.9 % 4.7 % 4.8 % Average after tax yield(b) 3.8 % 3.7 % 3.7 % (a) Adjusted for the impact of unrealized investment gains and losses, receivables for investment sales and payables on investment purchases. Reduced for payables for securities lending in 2004. (There were no such payables at December 31, 2006 or 2005). (b) Excluding net realized and unrealized investment gains and losses. Net investment income totaled $3.52 billion in 2006, an increase of $352 million, or 11%, over 2005 net investment income of $3.17 billion. The increase in 2006 was primarily the result of higher yields on short term and long term taxable securities, continued growth in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio resulting from strong cash flows from operating activities and a decline in investment expenses. Also contributing to investment income growth in 2006 was the full year impact of investment returns from the investment of $2.40 billion in proceeds from the divestiture of the Companys equity interest in Nuveen Investments during 2005. The Companys real estate joint venture investments, which are included in other investments, also produced strong levels of net investment income in 2006. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2006 totaled $62.24 billion, $3.63 billion higher than year end 2005. The average pretax investment yield was 4.9% in 2006 compared with 4.7% in 2005. The increase primarily reflected higher yields on taxable investments purchased in 2006 and the strong returns generated by the real estate joint venture investments. Net investment income of $3.17 billion in 2005 grew $502 million, or 19%, over 2004, reflecting the impact of the merger, as well as an increase in invested assets over the prior twelve months, higher short term interest rates and a decline in investment expenses. The increase in invested assets in 2005 was driven by strong cash flows from operating activities and the investment of the $2.40 billion in proceeds from the divestiture of the Companys equity interest in Nuveen Investments. The average pretax investment yield in 2005 of 4.7% declined slightly from 4.8% in 2004, due to the maturity of higher yielding bonds and a higher proportion of tax exempt investments. Net investment income in 2004 included $111 million from the initial public offering of one investment. The Company allocates invested assets and the related net investment income to its reportable business segments. Pretax net investment income is allocated based upon an investable funds concept, which takes into account liabilities (net of non invested assets) and appropriate capital considerations for 72 each segment. The investment yield for investable funds reflects the duration of the loss reserves future cash flows, the interest rate environment at the time the losses were incurred and A+ rated corporate debt instrument yields. The investment yield for capital reflects the average yield on the total investment portfolio. It is the application of the yields to the segments investable funds and capital that determines the respective business segments share of actual net investment income. Fee Income The National Accounts market in the Business Insurance segment is the primary source of the Companys fee based business. The declines in fee income in 2006 and 2005 compared with the respective prior years is described in the Business Insurance segment discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) Net pretax realized investment gains in 2006 totaled $11 million, compared with net pretax realized investment gains of $17 million in 2005. The 2006 total included $49 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $33 million) generated by the venture capital portfolio and $30 million of net realized investment gains related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts (which require a daily mark to market settlement and are used to shorten the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio). These gains were substantially offset by $33 million of net realized investment losses from the fixed maturity portfolio (including $7 million of impairment losses) and $22 million of net realized investment losses related to the Companys holdings of stock purchase warrants of Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., a publicly held company. In addition, the Company incurred net realized losses of $11 million related to the divestiture of two small subsidiaries. Net pretax realized investment gains in 2005 were primarily generated from sales of venture capital investments and equity securities. In addition, the Company realized a pretax gain of $21 million from the sale of its Personal Catastrophe Risk operation and $13 million of pretax net gains related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts. Net realized investment gains in 2005 were reduced by $109 million of impairment losses, which were concentrated in the venture capital portfolio as described in more detail later in this discussion. The Companys net pretax realized investment losses of $39 million in 2004 included impairment charges totaling $80 million. Net pretax realized investment gains (losses) in 2004 also included net losses of $44 million related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts. Further information regarding the nature of impairment charges in each year is included in the Investment Portfolio Management section later in this discussion. Other Revenues Other revenues in all periods presented primarily consist of premium installment charges. In addition, other revenues in 2006 included a $42 million gain on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.60% subordinated debentures. Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Business Insurance $ 13,047 $ 13,453 $ 13,034 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,981 3,809 3,113 Personal Insurance 7,011 6,474 6,111 Total $ 24,039 $ 23,736 $ 22,258 73 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Business Insurance $ 11,046 $ 10,999 $ 10,374 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,393 3,159 2,708 Personal Insurance 6,711 6,228 5,929 Total $ 21,150 $ 20,386 $ 19,011 Gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 1% and 4%, respectively, over 2005. The disparity between gross and net written premium growth rates in 2006 was concentrated in the Business Insurance segment and was primarily due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage in the Companys Discover Re subsidiary that resulted in a decline in ceded premiums. Net written premium volume in 2006 was negatively impacted by a higher level of premiums ceded for the cost of property catastrophe reinsurance, whereas net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by $121 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In Business Insurance, net written premium growth in 2006 was driven by strong increases in Target Risk Underwriting, due to significant renewal price increases for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures, and in Industry Focused Underwriting, due to growth in several industry sectors served by this market. That growth was largely offset by a reduction in premium volume for operations in runoff, primarilty due to the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in the fourth quarter of 2005. Business retention rates remained strong throughout the Business Insurance segment in 2006, and new business volume increased. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, written premium growth in 2006 reflected strong business volume throughout the segment, and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. Net written premium growth in the Personal Insurance segment in 2006 reflected growth in new business volume, renewal price increases and continued strong business retention rates, partially offset by the estimated impact of transitioning to six month policy terms in the second half of the year for a large portion of the Companys multivariate pricing Automobile product, and an increase in ceded premiums for catastrophe reinsurance. Gross and net written premiums in 2005 both increased 7% over 2004, primarily reflecting the impact of the merger. However, gross and net written premium volumes in 2005 were down when compared to 2004 on a pro forma combined basis. The declines were concentrated in the Business Insurance segment, reflecting the planned non renewal of business in runoff and reduced premium volume in certain ongoing operations due to competitive market conditions. In addition, premium volume in the Business Insurance segments Construction operation was lower than in 2004 on a pro forma basis due to the now completed process of aligning the underwriting profile of the two predecessor companies. Net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by $121 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, whereas 2004 net written premium volume was reduced by $76 million of reinstatement premiums primarily related to reserving actions in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. Premium volume in the Personal Insurance segment increased over 2004, driven by continued renewal price increases and growth in policies in force in the homeowners line of business. During 2005, the Company experienced strong business retention rates on a company wide basis, as the Company focused on retaining its existing book of well priced, profitable business. New business levels in several of the Companys insurance operations also increased over 2004. Rate increases, however, were generally lower in 2005 compared with 2004, reflecting increased competition and more aggressive pricing in the marketplace. Rates for certain products in selected markets declined from 2004 levels. In the first quarter of 2005, the Company implemented changes in the timing and structure of reinsurance purchased in the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments. The changes in structure resulted in an increase in ceded premiums in 2005 when compared with 2004. The Company also made a modest adjustment to 2004 ceded written premiums to report at inception all ceded written premiums for reinsurance agreements that have minimum amounts required to be ceded. Previously, ceded written premiums for certain of these agreements were reported over the life of the 74 contracts. This adjustment affected only the statistical disclosure of net written premiums on a quarter by quarter basis; it did not affect net written premium amounts over the lives of the respective agreements, nor did it impact gross written premiums, earned premiums, operating results or capital. The adjustment was made to conform the statistical measurement of production net written premiums across the Companys businesses. Claims and expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.24 billion in 2006, $2.68 billion less than the 2005 total of $14.93 billion. The 2006 total included $103 million of catastrophe losses and $394 million of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 total included $2.03 billion of catastrophe losses and $325 million of net unfavorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses in 2005 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was concentrated in the Personal Insurance segment, primarily reflecting better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. The Business Insurance segment also experienced net favorable prior year loss experience in its ongoing operations in 2006, primarily in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business. That favorable development was partially offset by increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, which are discussed in more detail in the Asbestos Claims and Litigation and Environmental Claims and Litigation sections herein. There was also unfavorable prior year reserve development in runoff assumed reinsurance business. In 2005, the net unfavorable prior year reserve development was concentrated in the Business Insurance segment and was primarily driven by an increase to asbestos reserves, which was partially offset by other, non asbestos related net favorable prior year reserve development in all three business segments. Claims and claim adjustment expenses of $14.93 billion in 2005 were $512 million lower than the 2004 total of $15.44 billion. The 2005 total included $2.03 billion of catastrophe losses, compared with $761 million of such losses in 2004. The cost of catastrophes is discussed in more detail in the following narrative. The 2005 total also included $325 million of net unfavorable prior year reserve development, as described above, compared with $2.39 billion of net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2004. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2005 also reflected improvement in current accident year non catastrophe related loss experience as compared with 2004. The 2004 net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $2.39 billion included a $928 million charge to increase asbestos reserves and a $290 million charge to increase environmental reserves. In addition, the 2004 total included charges to increase the acquired net construction and surety reserves by $500 million and $300 million, respectively, and a charge of $252 million related to the financial condition of a specific construction contractor. The following discussion provides more information regarding the net unfavorable prior year loss development related to these three items in 2004, as well as other reserving actions. Upon having access to each companys detailed policyholder information, including underwriting, claim, and actuarial files on April 1, 2004, in connection with the closing of the merger, the Company was able to begin the detailed process of developing a uniform and consistent approach to estimating the combined companys loss reserves. As part of that process, a team of actuaries representing the historical actuarial perspectives, judgments and methods applied by each legacy company, discussed their views, methodologies, and analysis of available data. In addition to the discussion in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of this report, other items specifically considered in the process of developing a uniform and consistent approach to estimating the combined companys loss reserves after the merger included interpreting the actuarial and claim data in a 75 uniform manner and determining an appropriate level of data segmentation for estimation purposes. This type of analysis involves a high degree of judgment and can, and often does, lead to reserve estimates that differ materially from those of prior periods, particularly in low frequency, high severity and complex exposures. In addition, since the reserving process also considers the expectations of future outcomes, the actuaries involved had to analyze their differing views on key assumptions, such as predicting inflation, estimating claim development patterns and determining expectations related to judicial rulings and interpretations, among others. This informed judgment is brought into the process by individuals such as actuaries, underwriters, claim adjusters, and company management. Ultimately, this process required an analysis of the varying actuarial judgments and forward looking assessments. The result was similar to a single, ongoing insurance enterprise obtaining more information in a reporting period than it had previously and identifying a change in estimate in its insurance reserves in that period. Accordingly, the Company recorded a $500 million and $300 million charge for construction and surety, respectively, in the second quarter of 2004. Construction Reserves. Beginning on April 1, 2004, upon the completion of the merger, personnel from the predecessor companies were able to share detailed policyholder information, claim files and actuarial data related to the acquired construction reserves. This enabled an analysis to be performed in the second quarter of the acquired construction reserves using TPCs long established practices that includes evaluating exposures by type of claim (e.g. construction defect, construction wrap up, other), by type of coverage (e.g. guaranteed cost, loss responsive, other) and by detailed line of business (general liability, commercial auto, etc.), among others. For general liability exposures, which include construction defect and construction wrap up, interpretation of underlying trends (both present and future) and the related reserve estimation process is highly judgmental due to the low frequency/high severity and complex nature of these exposures. In particular, for construction defect, there is a high degree of uncertainty relating to whether coverage exists, when losses occur, the size of each loss, expectations for future interpretive rulings concerning contract provisions and the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand geographically. As a result, material variations can and do occur among actuarial reserve estimates for these types of exposures. In a merger, these differences are likely to be even more pronounced. Prior to a merger, each legacy company consistently applies its assumptions, judgments and actuarial methods to estimate reserves. Differences between these assumptions, judgments and actuarial methods need to be understood and reconciled, and a uniform approach needs to be adopted for the merged entity. In this situation, material adjustments can and do occur for reserves related to exposures having a high degree of uncertainty. Analysis of the acquired construction reserves was completed near the end of the second quarter of 2004. Based upon the results of this analysis, the Company increased its estimate of the acquired net construction reserves by $500 million, including $400 million for construction defect and $100 million for construction wrap up claims, and recognized this change in estimate as an income statement charge in the second quarter. There was no reinsurance associated with this charge. Surety Reserves. Personnel from the predecessor companies were also able to share detailed SPC policyholder information related to surety reserves upon completion of the merger. Access to this detailed information enabled the Company to perform a claim by claim review of reserves and claims handling strategies during the second quarter of 2004 using the combined expertise of claims adjusters from the legacy companies. This type of review involves considerable judgment, especially with respect to the economic outlook within which claims will be settled, estimates for dates of loss occurrence and evaluations of IBNR exposures for each insured. For example, as a result of the detailed information obtained concerning contractors with reported claims, the Company considered whether or not losses were incurred but not yet reported on one or more additional projects for each contractor examined. Also on April 1, 2004, the Company could begin to use this detailed information to compare SPCs assumptions, judgments and actuarial methods that were underlying the acquired reserves with its own 76 assumptions, judgments and actuarial methods. Similarities and differences were found to exist. Similarities included, but were not limited to, recognizing claim reserves when it was determined that contractors and commercial surety insureds were in default and thereby unable to meet their obligations, estimating initial IBNR provisions, and periodically re evaluating, at least quarterly, the adequacy of the reserves established based on actual claims recorded and revised estimates of IBNR. Differences included judgments and methods related to determining IBNR development factors and expected salvage, among others. That these differences exist is not unusual for surety reserve estimates. Surety is a line of business for which there are low frequency, high severity, very complex claims for certain exposures, particularly those related to large construction contractors and commercial surety insureds. Determining the date of loss in these circumstances requires a high degree of judgment. In addition, the claim reserve estimates even for reported claims are also highly judgmental. These two factors, among others, combine to make IBNR reserve estimations for surety extremely difficult. Due to this high degree of uncertainty, the informed judgments of different actuaries could and do vary materially. As discussed above, in a merger, these differences are likely to be even more pronounced. The claim reviews and actuarial analyses were both completed near the end of the second quarter of 2004. Based upon the results of these reviews and analyses, the Company increased its estimate of the acquired surety reserves by $300 million, net of $170 million of reinsurance, and recognized this change in estimate as an income statement charge in the second quarter. Charge Related to the Financial Condition of a Specific Construction Contractor. Prior to the merger and beginning in the third quarter of 2003, SPC disclosed that a large construction contractor for which it had written several surety bonds was experiencing financial difficulty. Based upon an analysis of the financial condition of the construction contractor that was performed in the third quarter of 2003, a restructuring plan was adopted by the construction contractor, its banks, and SPC, among others, as a means to minimize estimated losses. SPC monitored the progress of the construction contractor toward meeting the requirements of the restructuring plan throughout subsequent quarters. SPC also estimated and disclosed its estimated ultimate net losses related to this exposure, beginning in the third quarter of 2003 and updated each quarter thereafter, including the effects of advances made or expected to be made to the construction contractor, applicable collateral, co surety participations and reinsurance. The size and complexity of these particular construction contracts, coupled with the deteriorating credit quality of the construction contractor and the inherent uncertainty as to whether it would meet the obligations of the restructuring plan, resulted in a high degree of judgment in estimating potential losses. A comprehensive analysis that began in the first quarter of 2004 was completed during the last half of the second quarter. Based upon this analysis, the Company concluded that the contractor would not be able to meet the targets set forth in its business and restructuring plans. Therefore, the Company moved from supporting the contractors restructuring plan to adopting a workout plan as a means to minimize estimated losses. Under the workout plan, the Company would no longer provide additional surety bonds for new projects of the construction contractor. Also as part of the workout plan, the Company was able to implement additional accounting and engineering procedures for each open project, which included using specialists to implement additional forecasting, cash management, and reporting procedures, on both a project by project and consolidated level. Based upon this second quarter change to a workout plan and the detailed financial analysis that was able to be performed, the Company increased its estimate of the ultimate net loss by $252 million, including $9 million of reinsurance. This estimate took into consideration paid amounts, net receivables, liquidated damages, overhead costs, additional completion costs, including costs associated with replacing the contractor, receivable discounts, current and future claims from owners and subcontractors against the contractor, and the value of collateral, among others. 77 The Company also commuted certain reinsurance agreements with a major reinsurer in 2004 resulting in a $113 million prior year reserve charge (in addition to a current year loss of $40 million). Commutations are a complete and final settlement with a reinsurer that results in a discharge of all obligations of the parties to the terminated reinsurance agreement. Cost of Catastrophes. In 2006, the cost of catastrophes totaled $103 million (net of reinsurance), all of which was incurred in the Personal Insurance segment and resulted from several wind, rain, hail and snow storms in the United States throughout the year. In 2005, the Companys cost of catastrophes, net of reinsurance and including reinstatement premiums of $121 million and state assessments of $43 million, totaled $2.19 billion, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Reinstatement premiums represent additional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of reinsured losses under certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties and are recorded as a reduction of net written and earned premiums. The majority of catastrophe costs in 2005 were incurred in the Business Insurance segment ($1.41 billion) and in the Personal Insurance segment ($593 million) In 2004, the cost of catastrophes, net of reinsurance, totaled $772 million, all of which resulted from four hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne that also made landfall in the southeastern United States. 78 General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses totaled $3.46 billion in 2006, an increase of $229 million, or 7%, over the comparable 2005 total of $3.23 billion. The increase in 2006 was driven by investments made throughout the Company to support business growth and product development, costs related to the Companys national advertising campaign and legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies (see Item 3 Legal Proceedings). These factors were partially offset by the impact of the favorable resolution of certain prior year state tax matters, certain tax benefits, the absence of catastrophe related state assessments and lower premium tax related expenses. The $284 million increase in general and administrative expenses in 2005 compared with 2004 primarily reflected the impact of the merger. In addition, the 2005 total included $43 million of state assessments related to catastrophe losses, and also reflected investments made for process re engineering and to support business growth and product development, primarily in the Personal Insurance segment. These factors were partially offset by the benefit of expense efficiencies achieved since the completion of the merger. Included in the 2005 and 2004 totals were $112 million and $92 million, respectively, of amortization expense related to finite lived intangible assets acquired in the merger, and a benefit of $12 million and $58 million, respectively, associated with the accretion of the fair value adjustment to claims and claim adjustment expenses and reinsurance recoverables. The 2004 total included a $62 million increase in the allowance for uncollectible amounts due from policyholders for loss sensitive business (primarily high deductible business). This increase resulted from applying the Companys credit based methodology for determining uncollectible amounts to the recoverables acquired in the merger. General and administrative expenses in 2004 also included $29 million of restructuring charges related to the merger. Other 2004 Claims and Expenses. Other items increasing the 2004 claims and expenses included $296 million of charges to increase the allowances for estimated uncollectible amounts due from reinsurance recoverables, policyholders receivables, and co surety participations on a specific construction contractor claim. The increase in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables recognized a change in estimated disputes with reinsurers and is based upon the Companys reinsurance strategy of reduced reinsurance utilization, including the cessation of ongoing business relationships with certain of SPCs reinsurers, and aggressive collection of reinsurance recoverables. A charge was also recorded to increase the estimated uncollectible amounts due from policyholders for loss sensitive business (primarily high deductible business). This increase recognized a change in estimated uncollectible amounts due and resulted from applying the Companys credit based methodology for determining uncollectible amounts to the recoverables acquired in the merger. Because reinsurance recoverables and amounts due from policyholders for loss sensitive business are insurance contract related assets, these assets are subject to the same types of estimation variables as loss reserves. During the second quarter of 2004, a participating co surety on the specific construction contractor described above announced that insurance regulators had approved its submitted run off plan. Based upon industrys knowledge of the co suretys run off plan and the Companys analysis of its financial condition, the Company concluded that it was unlikely to collect the full amount projected to be owed by the co surety and established an appropriate level of reserves. In the second quarter of 2005, the Company reached a settlement with the co surety whereby the co surety made a payment to the Company and was released from further financial obligations to the Company in connection with the specific construction exposure. The settlement payment, coupled with the previously established co surety reserves, approximated the Companys estimate of the co suretys share of the bonded losses related to this exposure. Interest Expense Interest expense in 2006 was $38 million higher than in 2005, primarily due to the issuance in November 2005 of $400 million, 5.50% senior notes due December 1, 2015, and the issuance in June 2006 79 of $400 million, 6.25% senior notes due June 20, 2016 and $400 million, 6.75% senior notes due June 20, 2036. The proceeds from the 2006 debt issuances were used to fund the redemption and maturity in 2006 of certain of the Companys outstanding debt. The $50 million increase in interest expense in 2005 over 2004 primarily reflected the impact of a full year of interest expense on SPC debt assumed in the merger on April 1, 2004. The Companys debt outstanding at December 31, 2005 declined by a net $463 million compared with year end 2004. Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was 26.5%, 22.8% and 7.3% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2006 and 2005 effective rate reflected a higher level of pretax income associated with profitable underwriting performance. The low 2004 effective rate primarily reflected the impact of nontaxable investment income on a lower level of pretax income. GAAP combined ratios The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.5% in 2006 improved by 14.4 points compared with 2005, primarily reflecting the decline in catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses accounted for 0.5 points of the 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, compared with a 10.3 point impact in 2005. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 1.9 point impact from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 1.6 point impact from net unfavorable prior year reserve development. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development improved over the 2005 ratio on the same basis, reflecting improvement in frequency and severity trends in several lines of business. The underwriting expense ratio for 2006 was 1.2 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio in 2005. The changes primarily reflect the impact of the increase in general and administrative expenses described previously. In addition, the 2006 ratio was negatively impacted by a decline in National Accounts fee income, a portion of which is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio in 2005 also included a 0.4 point impact from reinstatement premiums and state assessments. Catastrophe losses accounted for 10.3 points of the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, compared with 4.0 points in 2004. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2005 included a 1.6 point impact of net unfavorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2004 ratio included a 12.6 point impact of net unfavorable prior year reserve development. The 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio also reflected an improvement in current accident year non catastrophe related loss experience, compared with 2004, primarily reflecting reduced claim activity. The 1.1 point increase in the 2005 underwriting expense ratio compared with 2004 reflected the impact of reinstatement premiums, state assessments, increased commission expenses in the Personal Insurance segment and investments made for process re engineering and to support business growth and product development, primarily in the Personal Insurance segment. These factors were partially offset by expense efficiencies realized since the completion of the merger. Discontinued Operations In March 2005, the Company and Nuveen Investments jointly announced that the Company would implement a program to divest its 78% equity interest in Nuveen Investments, which constituted the Companys Asset Management segment and was acquired as part of the merger on April 1, 2004. The divestiture was completed through a series of transactions in the second and third quarters of 2005, resulting in net pretax cash proceeds of $2.40 billion. The Company recorded a net operating loss from discontinued operations of $663 million in 2005, consisting primarily of $710 million of tax expense due to the difference between the tax basis and the 80 GAAP carrying value of the Companys investment in Nuveen Investments, partially offset by the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income prior to divestiture. The Company recorded a pretax gain on disposal of $345 million ($224 million after tax) in 2005. Income from discontinued operations of $88 million in 2004 represented the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income for the year. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of the Companys Business Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 10,876 $ 11,116 $ 10,929 Net investment income 2,538 2,341 1,980 Fee income 591 663 706 Other revenues 44 64 60 Total revenues $ 14,049 $ 14,184 $ 13,675 Total claims and expenses $ 10,509 $ 12,968 $ 13,297 Operating income $ 2,622 $ 1,044 $ 460 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 60.3 % 81.5 % 87.1 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.6 28.9 28.1 GAAP combined ratio 90.9 % 110.4 % 115.2 % Overview Operating income of $2.62 billion was $1.58 billion higher than operating income of $1.04 billion in 2005, primarily reflecting the absence of catastrophe losses, net favorable prior year reserve development, the continuation of favorable current year loss trends and a strong increase in net investment income. The Business Insurance segment incurred no catastrophe losses in 2006, whereas in 2005, the cost of catastrophes totaled $1.41 billion (including reinstatement premiums of $67 million), resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $21 million in 2006, compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $757 million in 2005 that was primarily driven by an increase in asbestos reserves. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income in 2006. Operating income of $1.04 billion in 2005 was significantly higher than operating income of $460 million in 2004, primarily due to a reduction in net unfavorable prior year reserve development, the impact of the merger and a strong increase in net investment income. These factors were partially offset by a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes in 2005. Net unfavorable prior year development totaled $757 million in 2005, compared with $2.03 billion in 2004. The 2005 total was primarily driven by a charge to increase asbestos reserves, whereas the 2004 total included $1.22 billion of charges to increase asbestos and environmental reserves, and the $500 million charge to increase construction reserves acquired in the merger, which is described in more detail in the Consolidated Overview section herein. The cost of catastrophes totaled $1.41 billion in 2005, compared with $532 million in 2004. Catastrophes in both years were the result of the hurricanes described in the Consolidated Overview section herein. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $10.88 billion in 2006 decreased by $240 million, or 2%, compared with 2005, as premium increases in the majority of the segments ongoing operations were more than offset by the continuing decline in other runoff operations earned premiums, including the impact of the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. The Personal Catastrophe Risk operation 81 accounted for $111 million of earned premiums in 2005. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $67 million of reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses. The $187 million increase in earned premiums in 2005 compared with 2004 primarily reflected the impact of the merger, which was largely offset by a significant decline in runoff operations, where business was intentionally being non renewed, and a decline in certain ongoing operations due to a lower level of written premium volume in the last half of 2004 and first half of 2005. In addition, catastrophe related reinstatement premiums reduced net earned premium volume in 2005 by $67 million. Net Investment Income Refer to the Net Investment Income section of the Consolidated Results of Operations discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2006 and 2005. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to its service businesses, which include claim and loss prevention services to large companies that choose to self insure a portion of their insurance risks, and claims and policy management services to workers compensation residual market pools. The $72 million decline in fee income in 2006 resulted from lower serviced claim volume in workers compensation residual market pools, the impact on fee income from lower loss costs due to California workers compensation reforms and lower new business volume due to increased competition. In 2005, the $43 million decline in fee income compared with 2004 was primarily due to increased competition, including the loss of several large customers in the second half of 2004 and early 2005. Claims and Expenses Claim and claim adjustment expenses in 2006 totaled $6.85 billion, down $2.51 billion from the 2005 total of $9.36 billion. The 2005 total included catastrophe losses of $1.32 billion, nearly all of which resulted from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, whereas the 2006 total included no catastrophe losses. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $21 million in 2006. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005 was $757 million. The 2006 net favorable prior year reserve development was primarily concentrated in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business, partially offset by increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, as well as reserve strengthening for assumed reinsurance business in runoff. The commercial multi peril and liability lines of business experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including improving legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The favorable prior year reserve development in the property line of business primarily reflected less demand surge inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe and catastrophe losses. Demand surge refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. The commercial automobile line of business experienced better than expected loss development which was attributable to the favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The reserve strengthening in assumed reinsurance was primarily due to changes in projected loss development driven by an unanticipated change in the claim settlement patterns of the underlying casualty exposures. In 2005, net unfavorable prior year reserve development was driven by an increase to asbestos reserves of $830 million and reserve strengthening for environmental and assumed reinsurance, which is in runoff. Those increases were partially offset by favorable prior year reserve development from lower frequency and severity for both casualty and property related lines of business. Drivers of the reduction in both frequency and severity were increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments, coupled with better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. Company initiatives 82 relating to claims handling, which affected claims staffing and workflows, also are believed to have contributed to the emergence of favorable severity experience in 2005. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2005 of $9.36 billion declined from the 2004 total of $9.84 billion. Included in those totals were $1.32 billion and $532 million, respectively, of catastrophe losses (net of reinsurance). Net unfavorable prior year reserve development totaled $757 million in 2005, as described above. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development totaled $2.03 billion in 2004, which included a $928 million charge to strengthen asbestos reserves, a $290 million charge to strengthen environmental reserves and the $500 million charge to increase construction reserves acquired in the merger described in the Consolidated Overview section herein. Also included in the net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2004 was a $174 million addition to the reserve for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables, $150 million recorded in TPCs Construction operation prior to the merger, $74 million from the commutation of agreements with a major reinsurer and other net unfavorable prior year reserve development, primarily concentrated in the Companys Gulf operations. Results in 2004 also reflected increased current year loss ratios on portions of the Construction book of business. Partially offsetting the impact of these factors was favorable prior year reserve development in several core Business Insurance operations, which resulted from reductions in the frequency of non catastrophe related losses attributable to improved underwriting and pricing strategies in prior years, the results of which emerged in 2004. Approximately half of the $155 million 2006 pre tax increase to asbestos reserves was due to an increase in the projected defense costs for ten policyholders. Additionally, $15 million of the pretax reserve adjustment was attributable to a delay in the approval and expected payment of the previously announced settlement with PPG Industries, Inc. as part of the Pittsburgh Corning bankruptcy reorganization plan. The remainder of the reserve adjustment was primarily due to continued litigation activity against smaller, peripheral defendants. In 2005, the asbestos charge resulted, in part, from higher than expected defense costs due to increased trial activity for seriously impaired plaintiffs and prolonged litigation before cases are settled or dismissed. The 2005 charge also considered the January 2006 court decision voiding, on procedural grounds, the previously rendered favorable arbitration decision in the ongoing ACandS litigation. The asbestos charge recorded in 2004 primarily resulted from an increase in litigation costs and activity surrounding peripheral defendants. The $120 million environmental reserve addition in 2006 was primarily due to higher than expected defense and settlement costs. In 2005, the environmental reserve charge was primarily related to declaratory judgment costs, whereas the significant 2004 charge was related to revised estimates of costs related to settlement initiatives. See the Asbestos Claims and Litigation and Environmental Claims and Litigation sections herein for further discussion of these reserves. General and administrative expenses in 2006 totaled $2.10 billion, 3% higher than the comparable total of $2.04 billion in 2005. The increase in 2006 primarily reflected the segments expenditures to support business growth and product development, the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign and legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies. General and administrative expenses in 2005 were 4% higher than the 2004 total of $1.95 billion, which primarily reflected the impact of the merger. The 2004 total included merger related charges and an increase in the allowance for uncollectible amounts due from policyholders. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2006 of 60.3% improved by 21.2 points compared with the 2005 ratio of 81.5%, primarily due to the absence of catastrophe losses and net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 (versus net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005). Catastrophe losses accounted for 12.3 points of the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 provided a 0.2 point benefit to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005 accounted for 6.8 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio excluding catastrophe 83 losses and prior year reserve development improved over the 2005 ratio on the same basis, reflecting improvement in frequency and severity trends in several lines of business. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2005 included a 12.3 point impact from catastrophe losses, compared with a 4.9 point impact from catastrophe losses in 2004. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development accounted for 6.8 points and 18.6 points, respectively, of the 2005 and 2004 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios. Excluding these factors from both years, the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved over the comparable 2004 ratio, reflecting the improvement in current accident year loss experience compared with 2004. The underwriting expense ratio for 2006 was 1.7 points higher than the 2005 ratio, primarily reflecting the increases in expenses described above, and the impact of declines in fee income. A portion of fee income is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. Catastrophe related reinstatement premiums of $67 million and catastrophe related state assessments of $18 million added 0.3 points to the 2005 expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio in 2005 was 0.8 points higher than 2004, primarily reflecting the intentional decline in runoff operations earned premiums, a decline in certain ongoing operations earned premiums due to a lower level of written premium volume in the last half of 2004 and first half of 2005, and the 0.3 point negative impact of reinstatement premiums and catastrophe related state assessments referred to previously. These factors were partially offset by the favorable impact of merger related expense savings throughout the segment and personnel reductions in the Business Insurance Other sector. The 2004 underwriting expense ratio included the impact of merger related restructuring charges and an increase in the allowance for uncollectible amounts due from policyholders. Written Premiums The Business Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Select Accounts $ 2,733 $ 2,799 $ 2,631 Commercial Accounts 2,613 2,535 2,463 National Accounts 2,169 2,627 2,410 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,279 2,154 1,785 Target Risk Underwriting 2,187 2,040 1,809 Specialized Distribution 1,036 920 816 Total Business Insurance Core 13,017 13,075 11,914 Business Insurance Other 30 378 1,120 Total Business Insurance $ 13,047 $ 13,453 $ 13,034 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Select Accounts $ 2,663 $ 2,722 $ 2,555 Commercial Accounts 2,376 2,330 2,273 National Accounts 1,135 1,230 1,040 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,196 2,080 1,747 Target Risk Underwriting 1,629 1,482 1,345 Specialized Distribution 1,022 908 807 Total Business Insurance Core 11,021 10,752 9,767 Business Insurance Other 25 247 607 Total Business Insurance $ 11,046 $ 10,999 $ 10,374 84 In Business Insurance Core operations, gross written premiums in 2006 were down slightly from 2005. Net written premiums in 2006, however, increased slightly over 2005. The disparity between gross and net written premium growth rates in 2006 was primarily due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage in the Companys Discover Re subsidiary in National Accounts that resulted in a decline in ceded premiums. For purposes of comparison between 2006 and 2005 net written premium volume, the impact of a higher level of ceded premiums for property catastrophe reinsurance in 2006 was virtually equivalent to the impact of the $67 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums in 2005. Net written premium growth in Business Insurance Core operations in 2006 was primarily concentrated in Target Risk Underwriting and Industry Focused Underwriting, driven by continued strong business retention rates, renewal price increases and higher new business volume throughout the majority of businesses comprising these markets. The decline in National Accounts net written premiums primarily reflected a reduction in premiums related to favorable loss experience on business priced on a loss sensitive basis and lower new business volume, partially offset by the decline in ceded premiums at Discover Re due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage. In Business Insurance Other operations, gross and net written premiums were down significantly from the comparable 2005 totals, reflecting the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005 and the intentional non renewal of business in the runoff operations comprising this category. In 2005, Business Insurance Core gross and net written premiums in 2005 increased 10% over the comparable 2004 totals, primarily reflecting the impact of the merger. However, 2005 written premium volume in Business Insurance Core operations declined when compared with 2004 on a pro forma combined basis, reflecting increased competition in the marketplace and the repositioning of the Construction book of business. Throughout Business Insurance Core operations (excluding Construction, due to the impact of repositioning the book of business), business retention levels increased over 2004, renewal pricing was flat with 2004, and new business levels improved over 2004. Net written premiums in 2005 for Business Insurance Core operations were reduced by $67 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In Business Insurance Other operations, gross and net written premiums declined 66% and 59%, respectively, from the comparable 2004 totals, primarily reflecting the intentional non renewal of business in the runoff operations comprising this category. Select Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.66 billion in 2006 declined 2% from 2005, primarily reflecting the impact of a reduction in premium volume from certain national small business insurance programs, the majority of which was transferred to the Specialized Distribution market. Excluding the impact of the business transferred, net written premiums increased by approximately 2% in 2006. Business retention rates remained strong and increased over 2005, and focused investments in technology and personnel led to improvement in new business volume over 2005. Renewal price changes for the Select Accounts market in 2006 were consistent with 2005, as modest pricing pressures in non coastal coverages were largely offset by price increases for coastal coverages. In 2005, net written premiums grew 7% over 2004, primarily reflecting the impact of the merger. However, 2005 written premiums declined from 2004 on a pro forma combined basis. Business retention levels in 2005 increased over 2004 and were also at historically high levels. Renewal price changes in 2005 were in the low single digit range for the year, which was lower than renewal price increases in 2004. New business levels in 2005 declined slightly from 2004. 85 Commercial Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.38 billion in 2006 increased 2% over 2005, driven by a strong increase in business retention rates and an improvement in renewal pricing. In 2005, net written premiums of $2.33 billion grew $57 million, or 3%, over 2004 volume of $2.27 billion, reflecting the impact of the merger. However, 2005 net written premiums declined from 2004 on a pro forma combined basis, although business retention rates in this market in 2005 increased over 2004. New business volume also grew over 2004. Renewal price changes in 2005 in Commercial Accounts declined from 2004 and were in the low single digits for the year, reflecting the increased competitive market conditions. National Accounts. Net written premiums in 2006 declined by $95 million, or 8%, from 2005, primarily reflecting a reduction in premiums related to favorable loss experience on business priced on a loss sensitive basis and lower new business volume, partially offset by the decline in ceded premiums at Discover Re due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage. In 2005, net written premiums grew $190 million, or 18%, over 2004, reflecting the impact of the merger and changes in Discover Res reinsurance program. Industry Focused Underwriting. Net written premiums of $2.20 billion increased by 6% over 2005, driven by growth in the Construction and Oil & Gas business units. Favorable economic conditions in these industry sectors, significant increases in business retention rates and continued strong new business volume contributed to the increase in premium volume in 2006 in these two business units. The remaining three business units in this market Technology, Agribusiness and Public Sector all achieved lesser degrees of net written premium growth over 2005. Net written premium volume of $2.08 billion in 2005 increased 19% over the 2004 total of $1.75 billion, primarily reflecting the impact of the merger. On a pro forma combined basis, Constructions net written premiums in 2005 declined from 2004, reflecting lower business volumes related to the process of aligning the underwriting profile of the two predecessor companies during the latter half of 2004 and the first half of 2005. Oil & Gas net written premiums in 2005 grew significantly over 2004, primarily due to the impact of the merger, strong business retention rates and higher new business volume. Target Risk Underwriting. Net written premiums of $1.63 billion in 2006 increased by 10% over 2005, driven by strong growth in the National Property and Inland Marine business units. Significant renewal price increases, particularly for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures, and strong business retention rates were the primary factors accounting for net written premium growth in these two business units in 2006. The Ocean Marine business unit also contributed to net written premium growth in 2006, primarily due to a decrease in the amount of business ceded. In 2005, net written premiums of $1.48 billion were 10% higher than 2004 net written premium volume of $1.35 billion, driven by the impact of the merger. On a pro forma combined basis, however, net written premium volume in 2005 declined from 2004, primarily due to competitive market conditions for property and inland marine coverages. Ocean Marine premium volume grew significantly in 2005, driven by renewal rights transactions. Specialized Distribution. Net written premium volume in 2006 of $1.02 billion increased 13% over 2005, primarily driven by the transfer of certain national small business insurance programs from Select Accounts to the National Programs business unit. In addition, Northland also experienced premium growth in 2006, primarily resulting from higher business retention rates and new business volume in commercial trucking, its primary line of business. In 2005, net written premium volume of $908 million grew $101 million, or 13%, over 2004 net written premiums of $807 million. The growth in 2005 was concentrated in National Programs and primarily reflected the impact of the merger and the transfer of certain program business from Commercial Accounts. On a pro forma combined basis, net written premiums in 2005 were level with 2004. In Business Insurance Other, the 90% and 59% declines in 2006 and 2005 net premium volume, respectively, compared with the respective prior years reflected the impact of business in runoff and the sale of the Companys Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. The runoff healthcare, 86 reinsurance and international business acquired in the merger produced minimal written premium volume in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Financial, Professional & International Insurance Results of the Companys Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 3,321 $ 3,197 $ 2,529 Net investment income 429 360 235 Fee income 1 Other revenues 26 20 17 Total revenues $ 3,776 $ 3,578 $ 2,781 Total claims and expenses $ 2,968 $ 2,961 $ 3,284 Operating income (loss) $ 609 $ 391 $ (322 ) Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 53.7 % 56.8 % 92.5 % Underwriting expense ratio 35.3 35.7 37.0 GAAP combined ratio 89.0 % 92.5 % 129.5 % Overview Operating income of $609 million in 2006 increased by $218 million, or 56%, over 2005. The improvement was driven by the absence of catastrophe losses in 2006, an increase in net investment income and growth in business volume, partially offset by a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and an increase in general and administrative expenses. Operating income in 2006 also benefited from favorable tax impacts from businesses outside of the United States, including an $18 million benefit associated with the pending sale of the Companys Mexican surety subsidiary, Afianzadora Insurgentes, S.A. de C.V. No catastrophe losses were incurred in 2006, whereas results in 2005 included $191 million in catastrophe costs, the majority of which resulted from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $14 million in 2006, compared with $72 million in 2005. Operating income of $391 million in 2005 improved by $713 million over the operating loss of $322 million in 2004. The significant improvement in 2005 operating income reflected net favorable prior year reserve development, as well as strong net investment income, improved current accident year results in Bond & Financial Products, and lower commission expenses in several lines of business. Operating results in 2005 included a cost of catastrophes of $191 million, compared with $51 million in 2004. The operating loss of $322 million in 2004 was driven by net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $739 million, including significant charges related to the surety reserves acquired in the merger and other reserving actions, which are described in more detail in the Consolidated Overview section herein. Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2006 increased $124 million, or 4%, over 2005, primarily driven by growth in Bond & Financial Products. In addition, earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $33 million of reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses, primarily in the Companys operations at Lloyds. Earned premium volume in International and Lloyds in 2006 declined slightly from 2005, primarily reflecting the elimination of a one month reporting lag at Lloyds in 2005 that resulted in $48 million of additional earned premiums being included in 2005 results. Also contributing to the decline in earned premiums in International and Lloyds in 2006 was the sale of certain classes of personal lines business at Lloyds in the first quarter of 2005, which had accounted for $43 million of earned premiums in 2005. 87 Earned premiums in 2005 increased $668 million, or 26%, over 2004, primarily reflecting the impact of the merger. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $33 million in catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. Earned premiums in 2005 also reflected the inclusion of one additional month of premium volume to eliminate a reporting lag at the Companys operations at Lloyds, the impact of which was partially offset by the sale of certain classes of personal insurance business at those Lloyds operations. Earned premiums in 2004 were reduced by $76 million of reinstatement premiums primarily related to a reserve charge in Bond & Financial Products. Net Investment Income Refer to the Net Investment Income section of the Consolidated Results of Operations discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2006 and 2005. Claims and Expenses Claims and claims adjustment expenses in 2006 totaled $1.79 billion, compared with $1.82 billion during the same period of 2005. The 2006 total included no catastrophe losses and $14 million of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 total included $158 million of catastrophe losses and $72 million of net favorable prior year reserve development. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2005 was attributable to the better than anticipated favorable impact from changes in underwriting and pricing strategies for International property related exposures. Claim and claim adjustment expenses totaled $1.82 billion in 2005, down significantly from the 2004 total of $2.35 billion. The 2005 total included $158 million of catastrophe losses, compared with $40 million of catastrophe costs recorded in 2004. Catastrophe losses in both periods were driven by the hurricanes described previously. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2005 of $72 million was driven by International. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development totaled $739 million in 2004, which included the $300 million charge to increase the estimate of the acquired net surety reserves in Bond & Financial Products, and the $252 million charge related to the financial condition of a specific construction contractor, both of which are described in more detail in the Consolidated Overview section herein. Results in 2004 also reflected a $60 million reserve increase related to the commutation of agreements with a major reinsurer, a charge to increase the allowance for estimated uncollectible amounts due from a co surety on a specific construction contractor claim, and increased current year loss ratios on portions of the Bond & Financial Products book of business. General and administrative expenses in 2006 totaled $536 million, an increase of 5% over 2005. The increase in 2006 primarily reflected the segments expenditures to support business growth and the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign and legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies. General and administrative expenses in 2005 totaled $509 million, an increase of 26% over the 2004 total of $405 million which primarily reflected the impact of the merger. The 2005 total included the impacts of a decline in commission expenses and expense efficiencies realized as a result of the merger. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 53.7% in 2006 was 3.1 points lower than the ratio of 56.8% in 2005. The 2006 ratio included no impact of catastrophe losses and a 0.4 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 ratio included a 5.5 point impact from catastrophes and a 2.3 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Excluding those factors in each year, the 2006 ratio was slightly higher than the 2005 ratio. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2004 included a 2.0 point impact from catastrophe losses, and a 29.3 point impact from net 88 unfavorable prior year reserve development. Excluding both factors in each year, the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved by 7.6 points compared with the 2004 ratio, reflecting the significant improvement in current year loss experience in 2005. The underwriting expense ratio in 2006 improved by 0.4 points compared with 2005, benefiting from the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums and increased business volume. Reinstatement premiums of $33 million increased the 2005 underwriting expense ratio by 0.4 points. In 2005, the underwriting expense ratio improved 1.3 points compared with 2004, reflecting the impact of the merger and expense efficiencies realized since the completion of the merger. Written Premiums Financial, Professional & International Insurance gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,657 $ 2,531 $ 2,102 International and Lloyds 1,324 1,278 1,011 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,981 $ 3,809 $ 3,113 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,255 $ 2,117 $ 1,819 International and Lloyds 1,138 1,042 889 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,393 $ 3,159 $ 2,708 The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 5% and 7%, respectively, over 2005. Growth in net written premium volume in 2006 resulted from strong construction surety volume in Bond & Financial Products, strong price increases for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures in the Companys operations at Lloyds, strong business retention rates and new business volume in International, and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. The Bond & Financial Products category represents the combination of the Companys previous Bond and Financial & Professional Services marketing groups. The elimination of a reporting lag at the Companys operations at Lloyds resulted in $39 million and $31 million of additional gross and net written premium volume in 2005, respectively. In Bond & Financial Products (excluding the surety line of business, for which these are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2006 remained strong and increased over 2005, while renewal price increases remained positive, but declined from 2005. New business volume was down from 2005. For International in 2006, business retention rates increased over 2005, renewal price changes declined slightly and new business volume increased when compared with 2005. Net written premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment for 2005 were reduced by $33 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, primarily related to the Companys operations at Lloyds. Gross and net written premiums in 2005 increased 22% and 17%, respectively, over written premium volume in 2004. The increase in gross and net written premiums in 2005 primarily reflected the impact of the merger. Net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by the $33 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, whereas net written premiums in 2004 were reduced by $76 million of reinstatement premiums primarily related to reserving actions in Bond & Financial Products. Gross and net written premiums in 2005 declined compared with 2004 volume on a pro forma combined basis. 89 Contributing to the decline in written premiums was the sale of certain credit related personal lines classes of business previously written at Lloyds in 2005. The decline was partially offset by the elimination of the reporting lag at Lloyds and premium growth in Bond & Financial Products. In 2005, approximately $114 million of gross written premiums previously written in the Companys Gulf operation (included in the Business Insurance segment) were written in Bond & Financial Products, compared with $90 million of gross written premiums in 2004. In Bond & Financial Products excluding surety, business retention rates in 2005 increased slightly over 2004. New business volume and renewal price changes were also higher than in 2004. As discussed previously, in the first quarter of 2005, the Company implemented changes in the timing and structure of reinsurance purchased, which resulted in a slight increase in Financial, Professional & International Insurance ceded premiums in 2005 over what would have been ceded prior to the changes being implemented. In International in 2005, business retention rates increased, and new business volume declined compared with 2004. Personal Insurance Results of the Companys Personal Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 6,563 $ 6,028 $ 5,580 Net investment income 548 457 442 Other revenues 94 96 91 Total revenues $ 7,205 $ 6,581 $ 6,113 Total claims and expenses $ 5,555 $ 5,464 $ 4,732 Operating income $ 1,132 $ 775 $ 939 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 54.8 % 62.2 % 58.3 % Underwriting expense ratio 28.3 26.9 24.9 GAAP combined ratio 83.1 % 89.1 % 83.2 % Overview Operating income of $1.13 billion in 2006 was $357 million, or 46%, higher than operating income of $775 million in 2005. Results in 2006 reflected a significant decline in catastrophe losses, strong growth in business volume, continued favorable current accident year loss trends and an increase in net investment income, partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses. Catastrophe losses in 2006 totaled $103 million, which resulted from several wind, rain, hail and snow storms throughout the year in the United States. Results in 2005 included a cost of catastrophes of $593 million, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Results in both years benefited from significant net favorable prior year reserve development, which totaled $359 million in 2006 and $360 million in 2005. Operating income of $775 million in 2005 was $164 million lower than operating income of $939 million in 2004, largely due to the $593 million cost of catastrophes. The cost of catastrophes in 2004 totaled $189 million, the majority of which resulted from four hurricanes that struck the southeastern United States. The Personal Insurance segment benefited from continued low non catastrophe related frequency levels, net favorable prior year reserve development of $360 million and strong net investment income levels in 2005. 90 Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $6.56 billion in 2006 increased 9% over the 2005 total of $6.03 billion, primarily due to significant new business volume, renewal price increases and continued strong business retention rates over the prior twelve months. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $21 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. Earned premiums of $6.03 billion in 2005 increased $448 million, or 8%, over 2004 earned premiums of $5.58 billion, reflecting continued strong business retention levels, new business volumes and renewal price increases over the prior twelve months. Net Investment Income Refer to the Net Investment Income section of the Consolidated Results of Operations discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2006 and 2005. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2006 totaled $3.60 billion, compared with $3.75 billion in 2005. The $154 million decline primarily reflected a reduction in catastrophe losses, which was partially offset by the impact of higher business volume in 2006. Catastrophe losses totaled $103 million in 2006, down significantly from the 2005 total of $547 million. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 and 2005 was $359 million and $360 million, respectively. The net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was driven by better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. In the Automobile line of business, for 2006 and 2005, the improvement was partially driven by better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices. These changes included practices which have allowed case reserves to be established more accurately earlier in the claim settlement process, thereby changing historical loss development patterns. In addition, for both years, industry and Company initiatives to fight fraud in several states led to a decrease in the total number of claims and a change in historical loss development patterns. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 and 2005 was partially driven by a significant decrease in the number of claims, attributable to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. These changes also resulted in a change in historical loss development patterns. In addition, for 2006, non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other loss experience was favorable due to continued evidence of a less than expected impact from demand surge, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. Approximately $100 million of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 resulted from a reduction in loss estimates for catastrophes incurred in 2005, primarily due to lower than expected additional living expense losses related to Hurricane Katrina. In 2005, claims and claim adjustment expenses included catastrophe losses of $547 million, compared with $189 million in 2004. Catastrophe losses in both years were primarily the result of hurricanes. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2005 was $360 million, as described above, compared with net favorable prior year reserve development of $378 million in 2004. In 2004, net favorable prior year reserve development in the Homeowners and Other line of business was driven by a significant decrease in the number of claims, attributable to changes in the marketplace, including higher policy deductible levels and fewer small dollar claims. These changes resulted in a change in the historical loss development patterns. Net favorable prior year reserve development in the Automobile line of business was driven by better than expected frequency and severity which is believed to have been caused by societal trends. In addition, both 91 industry and internal initiatives to fight fraud in several states caused a decrease in the total number of claims, as well as a change in the historical loss development patterns. General and administrative expenses totaled $804 million in 2006, an increase of $139 million, or 21%, over the 2005 total of $665 million. The increase in expenses over 2005 reflected increased business volume, the segments continued investments to support business growth and product development, legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies, and the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign. The 2005 total included $25 million of catastrophe related assessments. In 2005, general and administrative expenses were $129 million higher than the 2004 total of $536 million, primarily reflecting business growth, investments to support business growth and the catastrophe related assessments. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 54.8% in 2006 was 7.4 points lower than the comparable 2005 ratio of 62.2%. The 2006 ratio included a 1.6 point impact of catastrophe losses and a 5.5 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. The 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 9.3 point impact of catastrophe losses and a 6.0 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Excluding those factors from both years, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2006 was slightly lower than the comparable 2005 ratio, reflecting continued favorable trends in current accident year loss experience. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2004 included a 3.4 point impact from catastrophe losses and a 6.8 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Excluding the impact of these factors in both 2005 and 2004, the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved over the 2004 ratio, reflecting better current accident year loss experience. The underwriting expense ratio of 28.3% in 2006 was 1.4 points higher than the 2005 expense ratio of 26.9%, primarily reflecting the impact of the increase in general and administrative expenses described above, and a slight increase in commission expenses. In 2005, reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses reduced earned premium volume by $21 million, and catastrophe related assessments from various insurance pools increased taxes, licenses and fees by $25 million. These factors combined to result in a 0.5 point unfavorable impact on the Personal Insurance segments 2005 underwriting expense ratio. The 2.0 point increase in the underwriting expense ratio in 2005 compared with 2004 reflected an increase in commission expenses, other insurance expenses, and taxes, licenses and fees, and the 0.5 point impact of reinstatement premiums and catastrophe related assessments described above. The increase in commissions reflected a changing product mix and higher agent profit sharing expenses. The increase in other insurance expenses reflected the impact of process re engineering investments and investments in personnel, technology and infrastructure to support business growth and product development. Written Premiums The Personal Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by product line were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Automobile $ 3,731 $ 3,526 $3,470 Homeowners and Other 3,280 2,948 2,641 Total Personal Insurance $7,011 $6,474 $6,111 92 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Automobile $ 3,692 $ 3,477 $ 3,433 Homeowners and Other 3,019 2,751 2,496 Total Personal Insurance $ 6,711 $ 6,228 $ 5,929 Gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 8% over 2005. Net written premium volume in 2006 reflected increased costs for property catastrophe coverage (which reduces net written premiums), while net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by $21 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In the Automobile line of business, net written premium growth of 6% in 2006 over 2005 primarily reflected a strong increase in new business, partially offset by the impact of transitioning to six month policy terms in the second half of the year for the Companys multivariate pricing product that resulted in a lower amount of reported net written premiums in 2006. Business retention rates in the Automobile line of business remained strong and consistent with prior year rates. Renewal price changes in 2006 remained positive but were slightly below those in 2005. New business volume in 2006 was significantly higher than in 2005. The Companys multivariate pricing product in the Automobile line of business had been introduced in 37 states and the District of Columbia by the end of 2006. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2006 grew 10% over 2005. Business retention rates and new business volume in this line of business remained strong and increased over 2005. Renewal price changes in 2006 remained positive but declined from 2005. Net written premium volume in this line of business in 2006 also benefited from cross selling initiatives involving the Companys automobile multivariate pricing product. Gross and net written premiums in 2005 increased 6% and 5%, respectively, over 2004. Growth in 2005 was concentrated in the Homeowners and Other product line, driven by continued renewal price increases and new business volume. Business retention rates in both the Automobile and Homeowners and Other lines of business remained strong, and were consistent with 2004. In the Automobile line, renewal price increases in 2005 remained positive, but declined when compared with 2004. However, new business volume in 2005 in the Automobile line increased over 2004, primarily due to the introduction of the Companys new multivariate pricing product in selected states. The Personal Insurance segment had approximately 7.1 million and 6.6 million policies in force at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In the Automobile line of business, policies in force at December 31, 2006 increased 10% over the same date in 2005. Policies in force in the Homeowners and Other line of business at December 31, 2006 grew by 8% over the same date in 2005. 93 Interest Expense and Other (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net loss $ (163 ) $ (184 ) $ (182 ) The $21 million decline in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2006 compared with 2005 was primarily due to a $27 million after tax gain realized on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.6% subordinated debentures. Results in 2006 also reflected the favorable resolution of various prior year federal and state tax matters and the absence of expenses associated with the amortization of discount on forward contracts related to the Companys divestiture of Nuveen Investments that impacted the 2005 loss. These factors were partially offset by incremental interest expense in 2006 due to the issuance in November 2005 of $400 million, 5.50% senior notes due December 1, 2015, and the issuance in June 2006 of $400 million, 6.25% senior notes due June 20, 2016 and $400 million, 6.75% senior notes due June 20, 2036. The increase in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2005 over 2004 was primarily due to incremental interest expense on debt assumed in the merger and a reduction in net investment income, which were mostly offset by the absence of non recurring merger related charges and a reduction in non interest related other expenses in 2005. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While the Company has experienced a decrease in asbestos claims over the past two years, the Company continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from the Companys policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against the Companys policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants, the focus by plaintiffs on new and previously peripheral defendants and entities seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos related liabilities. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including the Company. Bankruptcy proceedings have also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Recently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on new and previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the loss and loss expense payments experienced by the Company. In addition, the Companys asbestos related loss and loss expense experience is impacted by the exhaustion or unavailability due to insolvency of other insurance potentially available to policyholders along with the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants. The Company continues to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, including, among others, ACandS, Inc., who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. (See Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings). In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in policyholders favor and other Company defenses are not successful, the Companys coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. 94 Accordingly, although the Company has seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to the Company but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for the Company. As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. In addition, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, challenging insurers conduct in respect of asbestos claims, and, as discussed below, claims by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos related bodily injuries. The Company anticipates the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) has entered into settlement agreements, which have been approved by the court in connection with the proceedings initiated by TPC in the Johns Manville bankruptcy court. On March 29, 2006, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders, while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders which required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Five appeals from the March 29, 2006 ruling were filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and TPC filed a cross appeal. Two appellants have voluntarily dismissed their appeals and a motion to dismiss the cross appeal was filed. Additionally, TPC appealed from a procedural order of the district court relating to the timeliness of the cross appeal. On January 17, 2007, the Second Circuit dismissed TPCs cross appeal and denied TPCs appeal from the procedural order. The three remaining principal appeals have been consolidated for disposition and remain pending. It is not possible to predict how the appellate court will rule on the pending appeals. If the rulings of the district court are affirmed through the appellate process, then TPC will have resolved substantially all of the pending direct action claims against it. (Also, see Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings). Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder annually on a policyholder by policyholder basis. In the course of this review, the Company considers, among other factors: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of each policyholders potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a products/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. For those policyholders for which an estimate of the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and related claim adjustment expense is determined, the Company calculates, by each policy year, a ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, past ceded experience and reinsurance collections. Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves. The Companys evaluations have not resulted in any data from which a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment may be determined. The Company also compares its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid 95 activity. Net asbestos losses and expenses paid in 2006 were $469 million, compared with $399 million in 2005. The $70 million net increase is primarily the result of lower reinsurance billings in 2006. Approximately 50% in 2006 and 42% in 2005 of total net paid losses related to policyholders with whom the Company previously entered into settlement agreements limiting the Companys liability. At December 31, 2006, net asbestos reserves totaled $4.05 billion, compared with $4.36 billion at December 31, 2005. The Company recorded pre tax asbestos reserve additions of $155 million, $830 million and $928 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, pursuant to the completion of the Companys annual ground up asbestos exposure review, which included an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder category, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions. Approximately half of the $155 million 2006 pretax reserve adjustment was due to an increase in the projected defense costs for ten policyholders. Additionally, $15 million of the pretax reserve adjustment was attributable to a delay in the approval and expected payment of the previously announced settlement with PPG Industries, Inc. as part of the Pittsburgh Corning bankruptcy reorganization plan. The remainder of the reserve adjustment was primarily due to continued litigation activity against smaller, peripheral defendants. The asbestos reserve addition in 2005 resulted, in part, from higher than expected defense costs due to increased trial activity for seriously impaired plaintiffs and prolonged litigation before cases are settled or dismissed. The 2005 reserve addition also considered the January 2006 court decision voiding, on procedural grounds, the previously rendered favorable arbitration decision in the ongoing ACandS litigation (described in more detail in note 15). The asbestos reserve addition recorded in 2004 primarily resulted from an increase in litigation costs and activity surrounding peripheral defendants. As in prior years, the 2006 annual review considered active policyholders and litigation cases, including cases challenging the applicability of aggregate limits on asbestos claims. Developing payment trends among policyholders in the Home Office and Field Office as well as Assumed and International categories were also analyzed. In 2006 the Home Office and Field Office categories, which account for the vast majority of the number of policyholders, experienced an overall reduction in new claim filings as well as in gross indemnity and defense payments over prior years. The Company has recently observed the following developments in the asbestos environment: the emergence of more stable payment trends for a greater proportion of policyholders; a decrease in the number of new claims received; a decrease in the number of large asbestos exposures reflecting additional settlement activity; a decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies; and the absence of new theories of liability or new classes of defendants. While there remains uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims, the Company believes that the factors noted above have led to a reduction in the overall volatility associated with its asbestos exposure. As a result of these favorable changes in the asbestos environment, and particular in the emergence of more stable payment patterns, beginning in 2007 the Company is now able to supplement the existing annual in depth process and the existing quarterly asbestos review process with additional aggregate quarterly reserve analyses. These additional analyses provide the Company with an increased ability to detect and respond to emerging trends, including reflecting any such trends, in its quarterly reserve estimates. 96 The Company categorizes its asbestos reserves as follows: Number of Policyholders Total Net Paid Net Asbestos Reserves (at and for the year ended December 31, $ in millions) 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 Policyholders with settlement agreements 27 28 $ 235 $ 169 $ 879 $ 1,357 Home office, field office and other 1,762 1,748 197 172 2,678 2,483 Assumed reinsurance and International 37 58 494 524 Total 1,789 1,776 $ 469 $ 399 $ 4,051 $ 4,364 The policyholders with settlement agreements category includes structured agreements, coverage in place arrangements and, with respect to TPC, Wellington accounts and the settlement of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims (for a fuller description of these matters, see Item 3 Legal Proceedings) (collectively the Direct Action Settlement). Reserves are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement. Structured agreements are arrangements under which policyholders and or plaintiffs agree to fixed financial amounts to be paid at scheduled times. In May 2002, Pittsburgh Plate and Glass Company (PPG) and the Company, along with three dozen other insurers of PPG, agreed on key terms to settle asbestos related coverage litigation under insurance policies issued to PPG. This settlement was to be incorporated into the Plan of Reorganization (the Plan) proposed as part of the Pittsburgh Corning (PC) bankruptcy proceeding. Pursuant to the proposed PC Plan, PC along with enumerated other companies (including PPG and Corning) were to receive protections afforded by Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code from certain asbestos related bodily injury claims. In prior years the reserves associated with this agreement were included in the structured settlement category. On December 21, 2006, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania declined to confirm the Plan. Confirmation of the Plan was one of the many conditions to the May 2002 resolution with PPG. Various parties to the PC bankruptcy have filed motions for reconsideration. It is not possible to predict how or when the bankruptcy court will rule on these motions. As a result of the December 21, 2006 ruling, it is uncertain whether the terms of the May 2002 settlement will ever be fully satisfied and thus the Company has removed the reserves associated with this agreement from the structured settlement category and has made a corresponding increase in its unallocated IBNR reserve. Coverage in place arrangements represent agreements with major policyholders on specified amounts of coverage to be provided. Payment obligations may be subject to annual maximums and are only made when valid claims are presented. Wellington accounts refer to the 35 defendants that are parties to a 1985 agreement settling certain disputes concerning insurance coverage for their asbestos claims. Many of the aspects of the Wellington agreement are similar to those of coverage in place arrangements in which the parties have agreed on specific amounts of coverage and the terms under which the coverage can be accessed. As more fully described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, TPC has entered into the Direct Action Settlement which is still subject to a number of contingencies. If those contingencies are met, then TPC will pay up to $502 million, possibly in calendar year 2007. One of the contingencies includes affirmance by all appellate courts of the orders entered by the United States Bankruptcy Court with respect to the Direct Action Settlement. It is not possible to predict how or when the appellate courts will rule on the pending appeals. Home office, field office and other relates to policyholders for which settlement agreements have not been reached, and also includes unallocated IBNR. Policyholders are identified for home office review based upon, among other factors: aggregate ultimate expected payments in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential non product exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In addition to IBNR amounts contained in the reserves for home office and field office policyholders, the Company has established a reserve for further adverse 97 development related to existing policyholders, new claims from policyholders reporting claims for the first time and policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation and direct actions against the Company. Assumed reinsurance exposure primarily consists of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. International is exposed to U.S. asbestos liabilities through participations in excess insurance policies, quota share and excess of loss reinsurance policies, and retrocession policies, underwritten in the London insurance market. Details of exposures under the reinsurance and retrocession policies are identified only when the Company is advised by the retrocedant. The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 5,103 $ 4,775 $ 3,782 Ceded (739 ) (843 ) (805 ) Net 4,364 3,932 2,977 Reserves acquired: Direct 502 Ceded (191 ) Net 311 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 196 833 941 Ceded (41 ) (3 ) (13 ) Net 155 830 928 Accretion of discount: Direct 1 1 17 Ceded Net 1 1 17 Losses paid: Direct 523 506 467 Ceded (54 ) (107 ) (166 ) Net 469 399 301 Ending reserves: Direct 4,777 5,103 4,775 Ceded (726 ) (739 ) (843 ) Net $ 4,051 $ 4,364 $ 3,932 See Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves. ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. 98 The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by the Company prior to the mid 1970s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and the Company does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. At December 31, 2006, approximately 81% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $337 million) was carried in a bulk reserve and included unresolved environmental claims, incurred but not reported environmental claims and the anticipated cost of coverage litigation disputes relating to these claims. The bulk reserve the Company carries is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate volume of in process environmental claims and the Companys experience in resolving those claims. The balance, approximately 19% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $81 million), consists of case reserves. The resolution of environmental exposures by the Company generally occurs by settlement on a policyholder by policyholder basis as opposed to a claim by claim basis. Generally, the Company strives to extinguish any obligations it may have under any policy issued to the policyholder for past, present and future environmental liabilities and extinguish any pending coverage litigation dispute with the policyholder. This form of settlement is commonly referred to as a buy back of policies for future environmental liability. In addition, many of the agreements have also extinguished any insurance obligation which the Company may have for other claims, including but not limited to asbestos and other cumulative injury claims. The Company and its policyholders may also agree to settlements which extinguish any future liability arising from known specified sites or claims. Provisions of these agreements also include appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect the Company. The Companys general purpose in executing these agreements is to reduce the Companys potential environmental exposure and eliminate the risks presented by coverage litigation with the policyholder and related costs. In establishing environmental reserves, the Company evaluates the exposure presented by each policyholder and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any. In the course of this analysis, the Company considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, the Company considers the many variables presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the policyholder at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between the Company and the policyholder, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. Conventional actuarial techniques are not used to estimate these reserves. In its review of environmental reserves, the Company considers: the adequacy of reserves for past settlements; changing judicial and legislative trends; the potential for policyholders with smaller exposures to be named in new clean up actions for both on and off site waste disposal activities; the potential for adverse development; the potential for additional new claims beyond previous expectations; and the potential higher costs for new settlements. The duration of the Companys investigation and review of these claims and the extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the value of the claim to the Company vary 99 significantly and are dependent upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of the policyholder in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the policyholder and the Company and the willingness of the policyholder and the Company to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute pertaining to these claims. Because these factors vary from claim to claim and policyholder by policyholder, the Company cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However, based upon the Companys experience in resolving these claims, the duration may vary from months to several years. The Company has continued to experience a decline in the number of policyholders tendering claims for the first time. These policyholders generally present smaller exposures, have fewer sites and are lower tier defendants. Further, regulatory agencies are utilizing risk based analysis and more efficient clean up technologies. However, the Company has experienced higher than expected defense and settlement costs. These increases have been driven in part by adverse judicial developments in certain states regarding the availability of coverage for environmental claims. As a result of these trends, the Company increased environmental reserves by $120 million in 2006. In 2005, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $30 million, primarily for declaratory judgment costs. In 2004, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $290 million due to revised estimates of costs related to settlement initiatives. The increases to environmental reserves in each year were net of reinsurance. Gross paid losses in 2006 and 2005 were $189 million and $248 million, respectively. TPC entered into a significant settlement with one policyholder in 2005. TPC executed an agreement with this policyholder which resolved all past, present and future hazardous waste and pollution property damage claims, and all related past and pending bodily injury claims. In addition, TPC and this policyholder entered into a coverage in place agreement which addressed the handling and resolution of all future hazardous waste and pollution bodily injury claims. Under the coverage in place agreement, TPC has no defense obligation, and there is an overall cap with respect to any indemnity obligation that might be owed. The first two payments related to this settlement were made during 2005 and the final payment was made in the first quarter of 2006. 100 The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 494 $ 725 $ 331 Ceded (69 ) (84 ) (41 ) Net 425 641 290 Reserves acquired: Direct 271 Ceded (58 ) Net 213 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 108 17 323 Ceded 12 13 (33 ) Net 120 30 290 Losses paid: Direct 189 248 200 Ceded (62 ) (2 ) (48 ) Net 127 246 152 Ending reserves: Direct 413 494 725 Ceded 5 (69 ) (84 ) Net $ 418 $ 425 $ 641 UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures described above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2006 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies the Company has issued, the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with the Companys previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against the Company and future developments pertaining to the Companys ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. In addition, the Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience has been impacted by the exhaustion or unavailability due to insolvency of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders along with the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants, although the Company has noted a recent decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation, including legislation related to asbestos reform. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of large coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the 101 case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos reserves, which includes an annual ground up review of asbestos policyholders, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. The Company completed its most recent annual ground up review during the third quarter of 2006. See Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2006 totaled $72.27 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate and 4% in other investments. Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a conservative investment philosophy. The Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2006 totaled $62.67 billion, comprising $62.46 billion of publicly traded fixed maturities and $208 million of private fixed maturities. The weighted average quality ratings of the Companys publicly traded fixed maturity portfolio and private fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2006 were AA1 and A3, respectively. Included in the fixed maturity portfolio at that date was approximately $1.78 billion of below investment grade securities. During 2006, holdings of tax exempt securities were increased to $35.63 billion to take advantage of their relatively high credit quality and attractive after tax yields. The average effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio, including short term investments, was 4.0 as of December 31, 2006 (4.3 excluding short term investments), compared with 3.9 as of December 31, 2005 (4.3 excluding short term investments). The following table sets forth the Companys combined fixed maturity investment portfolio classified by Moodys Investors Service ratings: (at December 31, 2006, in millions) Carrying Value Percent of Total Carrying Value Quality Rating: Aaa $ 41,578 66.3 % Aa 11,826 18.9 A 4,400 7.0 Baa 3,085 4.9 Total investment grade 60,889 97.1 Non investment grade 1,777 2.9 Total fixed maturity investments $ 62,666 100.0 % The Company makes investments in collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) that typically have high credit quality, offer good liquidity, and are expected to provide an advantage in yield compared to U.S. Treasury securities. The Companys investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches which offer the most favorable return given the risks involved. One significant risk evaluated is prepayment sensitivity. While prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration) and its effect on total return cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the investment process generally favors securities that control this risk within expected interest rate ranges. The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs. 102 At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company held CMOs classified as available for sale with a fair value of $3.56 billion and $3.43 billion, respectively (excluding Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities of $1.07 billion and $1.16 billion, respectively). Approximately 36% and 43% of the Companys CMO holdings are guaranteed by or fully collateralized by securities issued by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, the Company held $4.36 billion and $4.83 billion of GNMA, FNMA, FHLMC or FHA mortgage backed pass through securities classified as available for sale at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Virtually all of these securities are rated Aaa. The Companys real estate investments include warehouses and office buildings and other commercial land and properties that are directly owned. The Companys other investments primarily comprise venture capital, through direct ownership and limited partnerships, private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships and trading securities, which are subject to more volatility than the Companys fixed income investments, but historically have provided a higher return. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the carrying value of the Companys other investments was $3.40 billion and $3.17 billion, respectively. The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included as a separate component of accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Fixed maturities $ 422 $ 367 $ 1,252 Equity securities 37 41 72 Venture capital 108 89 11 Other investments (excluding venture capital) 113 (12 ) 2 Unrealized investment gains before tax 680 485 1,337 Provision for taxes 227 158 469 Net unrealized investment gains at end of year $ 453 $ 327 $ 868 Net pretax unrealized investment gains at December 31, 2006 increased by $195 million over year end 2005, primarily concentrated in the fixed maturity portfolio and in other investments carried at fair value. The increase in net unrealized investment gains on fixed maturities was primarily driven by the impact of declining market interest rates on tax exempt securities, which was partially offset by a slight increase in market interest rates on taxable securities. Net pretax unrealized investment gains at December 31, 2005 declined by $852 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting an $885 million pretax decrease in the net unrealized gain on fixed maturities that was driven by an increase in market interest rates in 2005. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $78 million increase in pretax unrealized gains on the venture capital portfolio, which reflected favorable results from several of the investments comprising this category, net of losses realized through other than temporary impairments. Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains (losses) were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Fixed maturities $ 7 $ 11 $ 25 Equity securities 4 5 Venture capital 33 80 40 Other investments (excluding venture capital) 4 18 10 Total $ 48 $ 109 $ 80 103 For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $7 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $6 million resulting from the potential to sell various holdings prior to a recovery in market value, and $1 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position. $4 million in the equity portfolio when it became apparent that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period. $33 million in the venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings. Four of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Six holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Four of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. Two of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period. $4 million in its real estate and other investments (excluding venture capital). The loss recorded was the result of one mortgage loan refinancing at less favorable terms. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $11 million in the fixed maturities portfolio related to various issuers due to credit risk associated with the issuers deteriorated financial position. $80 million in the venture capital portfolio on 22 holdings. Two of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Fifteen holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Three of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. Two of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period. $18 million in its real estate and other investments (excluding venture capital). The losses recorded were the result of an equity partnership and a private stock holding which both experienced fundamental deterioration in their financial position. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $25 million in the fixed maturities portfolio related to various issuers due to credit risk associated with the issuers deteriorated financial position. $5 million in the equity portfolio when it became apparent that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period. $40 million in its venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings. Three of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Five holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Eight of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. $10 million in its real estate and other investments (excluding venture capital). The losses recorded were the result of falling rental rates and occupancies in three of the Companys real estate investment holdings. 104 The specific circumstances that led to the impairments described above did not materially impact other individual investments held during 2006, 2005 or 2004. The Company continually evaluates current developments in the market that have the potential to affect the valuation of the Companys investments. At December 31, 2006, the Company had no fixed maturities or equity securities available for sale for which fair value was less than 80% of amortized cost or cost, respectively. At December 31, 2006, non investment grade securities comprised 2.9% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio. Included in those categories at December 31, 2006 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $599 million and a fair value of $581 million, resulting in a net pretax unrealized investment loss of $18 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented less than 1% of the total amortized cost and less than 1% of the fair value of the fixed income portfolio at December 31, 2006, and accounted for 4% of the total pretax unrealized investment loss in the fixed income portfolio. Following are the pretax realized losses on investments sold during the year ended December 31, 2006: (in millions) Loss Fair Value Fixed maturities $ 121 $ 2,950 Equity securities 6 69 Other 1 1 Total $ 128 $ 3,020 Resulting purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Companys ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools, and is generally subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product offerings. The following presents the Companys top five reinsurer groups, by reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2006 (in millions): Reinsurer Group Reinsurance Recoverables A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Reinsurer Swiss Re Group $ 1,478 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Munich Re Group 1,125 A third highest of 16 ratings Berkshire Hathaway Group 900 A++ highest of 16 ratings American International Group 718 A+ second highest of 16 ratings XL Capital Group 552 A+ second highest of 16 ratings At December 31, 2006, $3.30 billion of reinsurance recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, trust agreements and escrow funds. 105 OUTLOOK The Companys strategic objective is to enhance its position as a consistently profitable market leader and a cost effective provider of property and casualty insurance in the United States and in selected international markets. A variety of factors continue to affect the property and casualty insurance market and the Companys core business outlook for 2007, including competitive conditions throughout the majority of markets served by the Companys business segments, loss cost trends, asbestos and environmental related developments and reinsurance and litigation costs. The Company expects property casualty market conditions to continue to be competitive throughout 2007. Relative to 2006, within the Business Insurance segment, the Company expects renewal price changes to moderate and terms, conditions and insured values to improve for exposures susceptible to catastrophe losses, such as coastal property and oil and gas related exposures, while renewal price changes for non catastrophe related exposures are expected to be subject to modest declines. Relative to 2006, within the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, the Company expects renewal price changes to be subject to modest declines. Also relative to 2006, within the Personal Insurance segment, the Company expects renewal price changes in the automobile and homeowners markets to remain relatively stable. The Company believes that the trend of increased severity and frequency of storms experienced in 2005 and 2004, although not evident in 2006, may continue in the foreseeable future. Given the trend of increased severity and frequency of storms, the Company has reassessed its definition of and exposure to coastal risks, as well as the impact on its reinsurance program. Accordingly, the Company is reviewing the pricing, exposures, return thresholds and terms and conditions it offers in coastal areas. In part as a result of the severity and frequency of storms in 2005 and 2004, the Companys cost of reinsurance has increased and the amount of reinsurance coverage purchased has been reduced. The cost of reinsurance may continue to increase and availability may continue to decline. To the extent that the Company is not able to reflect the potentially increased costs of increased severity and frequency of storms or reinsurance in its pricing, the Companys results of operations may be adversely impacted. In particular, in the Personal Insurance segment (and, to a lesser extent, in the Business Insurance segments Select Accounts market), the Company expects a delay in its ability to increase pricing to offset these potentially increased costs since the Company cannot increase rates to the extent necessary without the approval of the regulatory authorities of certain states. Also, particularly in light of the frequency and severity of storms in recent years, rating agencies have increased their capital requirements for the Company. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. States have from time to time passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from withdrawing from catastrophe prone areas. In addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies. The Companys ability or willingness to raise pricing, modify underwriting terms or reduce exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and or social responsibilities. The Company may also choose to write business it might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving access to other underwriting opportunities. With respect to non catastrophe related claim frequency, the industry has experienced unprecedented low levels over the last several years, a trend that the Company does not expect to change materially in 2007. The Company expects severity trend, the other component of loss trend, to continue to remain stable for non catastrophe related claims. Nevertheless, with continued pressure on pricing, it is possible that loss ratios will increase in certain parts of the Companys business in 2007. 106 Changes in the general interest rate environment affect the returns available on new investments. While a rising interest rate environment enhances the returns available on new fixed income investments, it reduces the market value of existing fixed maturity investments and the availability of gains on disposition. A decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments but increases the market value of existing investments and the availability of realized investment gains on disposition. In 2006, short term interest rates and long term taxable interest rates continued to increase. Additionally, yields available on new investments often exceeded those yields on investments maturing in the investment portfolio. The continuation of an upward trend in interest rates in 2007 would favorably impact the average book yield of the Companys fixed income holdings. If the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 and Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (the Program) is not renewed for periods after January 1, 2008, the benefits of the Program will not be available to the Company, and the Company will be subject to losses from acts of terrorism subject only to the terms and provisions of applicable policies, including policies written in 2007 for which the period of coverage extends into 2008. Given the unpredictable frequency and severity of terrorism losses, as well as the limited terrorism coverage in the Companys own reinsurance program, future losses from acts of terrorism, particularly those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could be material to the Companys operating results, financial condition and or liquidity in future periods, particularly if the Program is not renewed. There are currently various state and federal legislative and judicial proposals to require asbestos claimants to demonstrate an asbestos illness. At this time it is not possible to predict the likelihood or timing of such proposals being enacted or the effect if they are enacted. The Companys ongoing analysis of its asbestos reserves did not assume the adoption of any asbestos reforms. For information about the outlook with respect to asbestos related claims and liabilities see Asbestos Claims and Litigation and Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In addition, Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs. Although the United States federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation (e.g. the repeal of the McCarran Ferguson Act) and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. For a discussion of potential risks that could impact the Companys financial condition or results of operations, see Item 1A Risk Factors in this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. The Company also has access to liquidity through its shelf registration statement 107 with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its $1 billion line of credit. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities of continuing operations totaled $4.77 billion, $3.59 billion and $5.07 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Cash flows in 2006 reflected higher levels of collected premiums and net investment income, lower claim payments on catastrophe losses, as well as lower runoff claim payments. In addition, cash flows from operations in 2006 benefited from significant 2006 reinsurance recoveries related to 2005 hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. These factors were partially offset by higher interest payments and an increase in tax payments resulting from higher profitability. Cash flows in 2005 reflected an increase in loss and loss adjustment expense payments primarily related to the catastrophe losses incurred during 2005 and 2004, and an increase in tax payments resulting from higher profitability. Cash flows in 2004 included $867 million in cash proceeds received pursuant to the commutation of specific reinsurance agreements. Cash flows in 2004 also benefited from premium rate and volume increases. The Company utilized $11 million, $2.00 billion and $548 million of net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, thereby reducing current regular tax payments by $4 million, $698 million and $192 million, respectively. Net cash flows provided by operating activities for all three years were negatively impacted by payments for asbestos and environmental liabilities, as well as by payments for claims related to the Companys runoff operations. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities of continuing operations totaled $3.06 billion, $5.44 billion and $4.65 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Fixed maturity securities accounted for the majority of investment purchases in all three years. The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid intermediate term taxable U.S. government, corporate and mortgage backed bonds and tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed income investment portfolio generally produces a duration that exceeds the duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The average duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 4.0 at December 31, 2006, compared with 3.9 at December 31, 2005. The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, venture capital, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships and trading securities. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities, and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and 108 interest payments produced by the Companys fixed income portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed income portfolio exceeds the present value of the net insurance liabilities, plus the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds provides assurance of the Companys ability to fund the payment of claims without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. Sale of Subsidiary. The Companys cash flows in 2005 included $2.40 billion of pretax proceeds (after underwriting fees and transaction costs) from the divestiture of its equity interest in Nuveen Investments. Of this amount, $405 million was received directly by the Companys insurance subsidiaries, and the remainder was received directly by the holding company. Of the proceeds received directly by the holding company, $1.225 billion was contributed to the capital of the Companys insurance subsidiaries, with the remainder available for general corporate purposes. Holding company liquidity levels were increased in 2005 through dividends received from the Companys operating subsidiaries, the retained proceeds from the Nuveen Investments divestiture, the proceeds of $442 million from the issuance of common stock (described below) and the issuance of $400 million of 5.50% senior notes. At December 31, 2006, total cash, short term invested assets and other readily marketable securities aggregating $1.45 billion were held at the holding company level. The assets held at the holding company, combined with other sources of funds available, primarily additional dividends from operating subsidiaries, are considered sufficient to meet the liquidity requirements of the Company. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities of continuing operations totaled $1.59 billion, $473 million and $516 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2006 total primarily reflected common share repurchases and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by proceeds from employee stock option exercises. In 2005, the total primarily reflected the repayment of debt and dividends to shareholders, which were partially offset by the issuance of common stock pursuant to the maturity of equity unit forward contracts and the issuance of debt. Dividends paid to shareholders were the primary factor in cash used in financing activities in 2004. Debt Transactions. In June 2006, the Company issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2016 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2036. The notes were issued at a discount, resulting in effective interest rates of 6.30% and 6.86%, respectively. Net proceeds from the issuances (after original issue discount and expenses) totaled approximately $786 million, which the Company applied to the redemption of approximately $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures (described in more detail below), $150 million of 6.75% senior notes that matured on November 15, 2006 and $56 million of medium term notes that matured in the second half of the year. In November 2006, the Company redeemed $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures originally issued in 2001 and due October 15, 2050. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after November 13, 2006. In November 2001, St. Paul Capital Trust I, a business trust, issued $575 million of preferred securities, the proceeds of which, along with $18 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by the Company. Upon the Companys redemption of its subordinated debentures in November 2006, St. Paul Capital Trust I in turn used the proceeds to redeem its preferred securities. St. Paul Capital Trust I was then liquidated, and the Company received an $18 million distribution of capital. The Company recorded a $42 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, representing the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment 109 recorded at the merger date. A portion of the proceeds from the June 2006 debt issuances described above was used to fund this redemption. In 2005, the Company repaid $815 million of its outstanding debt, primarily comprised of the following: maturities of $238 million of 7.875% senior notes, $79 million of 7.125% senior notes, and $99 million of medium term notes bearing interest rates ranging from 6.44% to 7.09%; and a net repayment of commercial paper borrowings of $395 million. In November 2005, the Company issued $400 million of 5.50% senior notes maturing in December 2015. The majority of proceeds was used to fund the repayment of commercial paper borrowings, described above, with the remainder used for general corporate purposes. In July 2002, concurrent with the issuance of 17.8 million of SPC common shares in a public offering, SPC issued 8.9 million equity units, each having a stated amount of $50, for gross consideration of $442 million. Each equity unit initially consisted of a forward purchase contract for the Companys common stock, which matured in August 2005, and an unsecured $50 senior note of the Company (maturing in 2007). Total annual distributions on the equity units were at the rate of 9.00%, consisting of interest on the note at a rate of 5.25% and fee payments under the forward contract of 3.75%. Holders of the equity units had the opportunity to participate in a required remarketing of the senior note component. The initial remarketing date was May 11, 2005. On that date, the notes were successfully remarketed, and the interest rate on the notes was reset to 5.01%, from 5.25%, effective May 16, 2005. The remarketed notes mature on August 16, 2007. The forward purchase contract required the investor to purchase, for $50, a variable number of shares of the Companys common stock on the settlement date of August 16, 2005. The number of shares purchased was determined based on a formula that considered the average closing price of the Companys common stock on each of 20 consecutive trading days ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the settlement date, in relation to the $24.20 per share price of common stock at the time of the offering. On the August 16, 2005 settlement date, the Company issued 15.2 million common shares and received total proceeds of $442 million. In January 2007, the Company redeemed its 8.47%, $81 million subordinated debentures due January 10, 2027. The redemption was funded internally. An additional $1.02 billion of the Companys outstanding debt at December 31, 2006 will mature at various times during 2007. The Company plans to refinance these maturities during 2007. Share Repurchases. On May 2, 2006, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2 billion of the Companys common stock. Under this program, repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, in accordance with Rule 10b 18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, pursuant to pre set trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. This program does not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price, catastrophe losses and other market conditions. During 2006, the Company repurchased 22.8 million common shares under the program for a total cost of approximately $1.12 billion. The average cost per share repurchased in 2006 was $49.20. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company acquired 1.2 million, 0.8 million and 0.4 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $702 million, $628 million and $642 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. On February 7, 2007, the Companys Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.26 per share, payable March 30, 2007 to shareholders of record on March 9, 2007. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including the 110 Companys financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its Board of Directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (at December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 Debt: Short term $ 1,114 $ 310 Long term 4,588 5,393 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs 58 147 Total debt 5,760 5,850 Preferred shareholders equity 129 153 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 24,554 21,799 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 452 351 Total shareholders equity 25,135 22,303 Total capitalization $ 30,895 $ 28,153 The increase in shareholders equity in 2006 reflected the Companys strong net income for the year, partially offset by the impact of common share repurchases and dividends to shareholders. Line of Credit Agreement. The Company maintains an $800 million commercial paper program with back up liquidity consisting of a bank credit agreement. In June 2005, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion, five year revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions. Pursuant to covenants in the credit agreement, the Company must maintain an excess of consolidated net worth over goodwill and other intangible assets of not less than $10 billion at all times. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total consolidated debt to the sum of total consolidated debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control. At December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and all other covenants related to its respective debt instruments outstanding. Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, the Company has an option to increase the credit available under the facility, no more than once a year, up to a maximum facility amount of $1.5 billion, subject to the satisfaction of a ratings requirement and certain other conditions. There was no amount outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2006. Shelf Registration. In December 2005, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2006, the Company issued $800 million of senior debt (as described above) under this shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Capacity. At December 31, 2006, the Company had $879 million of capacity remaining under the original $2 billion share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in 2006. In January 2007, the Companys board of directors authorized a $3 billion increase to the program, which the Company currently expects to fully utilize by the first quarter of 2009, subject to the factors listed in the Share Repurchases section above. 111 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2006, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claims related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2006 that are expected to be settled in cash. The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. 112 The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments and estimated claims and claims related payments (gross of the estimated reinsurance recoveries), at December 31, 2006 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt(1) Medium term notes $ 242 $ 72 $ 149 $ 21 $ Convertible notes 893 893 Senior notes 3,992 942 400 250 2,400 Capital trusts 335 81 254 Zero coupon convertible notes 141 141 Private placement notes 12 3 5 4 Total debt principal 5,615 1,098 695 275 3,547 Interest 4,356 296 475 426 3,159 Total long term debt obligations 9,971 1,394 1,170 701 6,706 Operating leases(2) 908 185 298 153 272 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 131 54 50 27 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 120 20 40 40 20 Other purchase commitments(5) 80 35 6 3 36 Total purchase obligations 331 109 96 70 56 Long term unfunded investment commitments(6) 1,392 337 524 329 202 Estimated claims and claims related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 60,357 16,879 18,803 8,752 15,923 Claims from large deductible policies(8) Loss based assessments(9) 206 29 47 22 108 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 320 109 207 4 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 371 79 141 8 143 Total estimated claims and claims related payments 61,254 17,096 19,198 8,782 16,178 Total $ 73,856 $ 19,121 $ 21,286 $ 10,035 $ 23,414 (1) See note 7 of the notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 7. (2) Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3) Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4) In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through 2012. See note 15. (5) Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. 113 (6) Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for investments in real estate partnerships, private equities and hedge funds. (7) The amounts in Claims and claim adjustment expenses in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in Note 4 the notes to financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance receivables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claims adjustment expense) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance. (See below.) The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance receivables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance receivables $ 16,618 $ 4,592 $ 5,088 $ 2,385 $ 4,553 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expense, net $ 43,739 $ 12,287 $ 13,715 $ 6,367 $ 11,370 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2006. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance receivables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance receivables have been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of the financial statements.) (8) Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. Claims from large deductible policies represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as contractholder payables and 114 contractholder receivables, respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within Claims and claim adjustment expenses in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/ receivables $ 5,023 $ 1,274 $ 1,425 $ 719 $ 1,605 (9) The amounts in Loss based assessments relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. (10) The amounts in Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11) The amounts in Payouts from ceded funds withheld represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur future payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company is not required to make any contributions to its qualified pension plan in 2006 and does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to the qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, that together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. 115 The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $3.07 billion is available by the end of 2007 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The Company received $1.16 billion of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2006. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2006, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to agency loans and letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, third party loans related to venture capital investments and various indemnifications related to the sale of business entities to third parties. See note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claim and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment impairments and goodwill impairments. Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries, reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The reserves are reviewed regularly by a qualified actuary employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for loss and loss adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential 116 severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including but not limited to the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability will be different from that anticipated at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than currently reserved favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability by the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to, determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; and estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophes occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys loss reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation which totaled $4.47 billion at December 31, 2006. While the ongoing study of asbestos claims and associated liabilities and of environmental claims considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of Asbestos Claims and Litigation and Environmental Claims and Litigation. Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2006 2005 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 7,555 $ 12,414 $ 19,969 $ 8,198 $ 12,251 $ 20,449 Property 1,612 978 2,590 1,987 1,050 3,037 Commercial multi peril 1,940 2,693 4,633 2,448 2,901 5,349 Commercial automobile 2,573 1,801 4,374 2,792 1,885 4,677 Workers compensation 9,142 6,337 15,479 8,816 6,374 15,190 Fidelity and surety 1,035 838 1,873 1,240 673 1,913 Personal automobile 1,505 1,092 2,597 1,470 1,138 2,608 Homeowners and personal other 481 706 1,187 709 987 1,696 International and other 3,296 3,204 6,500 3,033 3,055 6,088 Property casualty 29,139 30,063 59,202 30,693 30,314 61,007 Accident and health 76 10 86 74 9 83 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 29,215 $ 30,073 $ 59,288 $ 30,767 $ 30,323 $ 61,090 117 The $1.80 billion decline in gross claim and claim adjustment expense reserves in 2006 primarily reflected payments related to prior year hurricane losses, claim and claim adjustment expense payments from runoff operations and favorable prior year reserve development, primarily in the Personal Insurance segment, partially offset by the impact of reserves acquired in the RITC transaction described in note 1. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril lines and International and other lines in the summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see Asbestos Claims and Litigation, Environmental Claims and Litigation and Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves. General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claim and claim expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Policies written on a claims made basis require that claims be reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The use of the occurrence form accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, and it is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, 118 including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed management judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application, on a consistent basis over time, of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag the greater the proportion of IBNR claims to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being low frequency/high severity, while lines without this large claim sensitivity are referred to as high frequency/low severity. Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, high frequency/low severity lines tend to have much greater spread of estimation risk, such that the impact of individual claims are relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when 119 faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimate selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. The merger of TPC and SPC resulted in the exposure of each others actuaries and claim departments to different products, data histories, analysis methodologies, claim settlement experts, and more robust data when viewed on a combined basis. This impacted the range of estimates produced by the Companys actuaries, as they reacted to new data, approaches, and sources of expertise to draw upon. It also resulted in additional levels of uncertainty, as past trends (that were a function of past products, past claim handling procedures, past claim departments, and past legal and other experts) may not repeat themselves, as those items affecting the trends change or evolve due to the merger. This also increased the potential for material variation in estimates, as experts can have differing views as to the impact of these frequently evolutionary changes. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends reestablish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty (risk factors) generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method and in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, resulting in an ultimate claim liability that is different from that being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants, and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in step wise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. 120 Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves. The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method(1), the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods.) While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, those evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analysis may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. The above is generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method which uses the earned premium for the current year multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through analysis of prior experience periods using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. (1) The paid and incurred development methods are sometimes also known as link ratio methods. 121 Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claim and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is due to the need to evaluate the underlying cause of the trends observed, and may include the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year 122 closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade for construction defect claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an occurrence basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a claims made basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately, such as asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such defense within the limits policies are most common for claims made products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. 123 This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the event triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also increase the potential recognition lag, i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure. The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved, and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice, and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. Besides the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development methods and S curves for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company utilizes the BF method more heavily than paid and case incurred development. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) 124 General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.6% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 3% to +14% (averaging +5%) for the Company and 4% to +7% (averaging +1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development came from certain business that has since been exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 26% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was +2% for 2006, +4% for 2005 and +10% for 2004. The 2006 change largely resulted from directors and officers and errors and omissions adjustments due to worse than expected large loss activity and additional information from detailed claim reviews, primarily associated with accident years 2002 and 2003. The 2005 change was the net result of numerous adjustments for various components with no individual item being a primary driver. The 2004 change was principally due to the construction defect and construction wrap up reserving actions discussed on page 76 of this narrative. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, demand surge inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations 125 Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to +26% (averaging 4%) for the Company and 14% to +7% (averaging 0%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development came from certain business that has since been exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change can be more volatile than the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property due to weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the last half of the year and generally dont clearly resolve until the following year. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 11% for 2006, 34% for 2005 and 18% for 2004. The 2006 change primarily reflected less demand surge inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe and catastrophe losses. The 2005 and 2004 changes were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. Such material changes did not materialize in 2006, 2005 or 2004. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property include larger customers. See Property risk factors and General liability risk factors, discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. 126 Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 6% to +2% (averaging 3%) for the Company and 2% to +6% (averaging +2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial multi peril reserves represent approximately 8% of the Companys total loss reserves. As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 4% for 2006, 6% for 2005 and 5% for 2004. The 2006 change was attributable to better than expected results due to, among other factors, increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2005 change was the result of increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments, coupled with better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. The 2004 change was primarily attributable to better than expected results from changes in underwriting and pricing strategies. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components; bodily injury liability, property damage liability, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received 127 Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 7% to +9% (averaging +1%) for the Company and 1% to +9% (averaging +2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 7% for 2006, 5% for 2005 and 2% for 2004. The 2006 change was due to better than expected loss development, primarily for accident years 2003 through 2005, which was attributable to favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The 2005 change was due to the effect of increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria, especially for accident year 2004. The 2004 change was due to better than expected results from underwriting and pricing strategies, especially for accident year 2003. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs 128 Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules (inflation) Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 2% to +2% (averaging 1%) for the Company and 2% to +4% (averaging +1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 26% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2006, 0% for 2005 and +1% for 2004. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit (1) These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment, or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 129 and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. 130 Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 15% to +138% (averaging +20%) for the Company and 9% to +24% (averaging +7%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 5% for 2006, 0% for 2005 and +138% for 2004. The 2006 change was due to better than expected large loss activity. The 2004 change resulted from acquired business, including a large construction contractor loss discussed on page 77 of this narrative. Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment 131 Personal automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to +1% (averaging 4%) for the Company and 7% to 0% (averaging 3%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 7% for 2006, 9% for 2005 and 6% for 2004. The decreases in 2006 and 2005 were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. The 2004 change was driven by better than expected frequency and severity, which is believed to have been principally caused by societal trends as well as fraud initiatives. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. 132 Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, demand surge inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 31% to +3% (averaging 11%) for the Company and 9% to +11% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 2% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change can be more volatile than the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property due to weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the last half of the year and generally do not clearly resolve until the following year. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 22% for 2006, +3% for 2005 and 31% for 2004. The 2006 change was due to lower than expected additional living expenses related to Hurricane Katrina as well as better than expected non catastrophe related frequency and severity, due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims, and continued evidence of a less than expected impact from demand surge. The 2005 change was driven by additional loss development from the 2004 Florida hurricanes. The 2004 change was driven by favorable 133 loss development, particularly from fewer claim counts for accident year 2003 as a result of changes in the marketplace, including higher policy deductible levels and fewer small dollar claims. International and other International and other includes products written by International and Lloyds and other products not discussed above. The principal component of other claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is primarily runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct), and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to prove not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) 134 International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, claims made language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 10% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses, and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. Changes in these estimates could result in additional income statement charges. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2006 declined by $31 million from the same date in 2005. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business and have the obligation of the participating insurance companies on a joint and several basis supporting these cessions. 135 The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 12,837 $ 14,177 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (773 ) (804 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 12,064 13,373 Structured settlements 3,758 3,990 Mandatory pools and associations 1,998 2,211 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 17,820 $ 19,574 Investment Valuation and Impairments Valuation of Investments Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities Fixed maturities are valued based upon quoted market prices or dealer quotes, or if quoted market prices or dealer quotes are not available, discounted expected cash flows using market rates commensurate with the credit quality and maturity of the investment. Equity securities are valued based on quoted market prices. The following table identifies the fair value of fixed maturity securities by pricing source at December 31, 2006 and 2005. 2006 2005 (in millions) Fair Value % of Total Fair Value Fair Value % of Total Fair Value Priced via independent market quotations $ 61,946 91.6 % $ 58,351 91.5 % Priced via broker quotations 173 0.3 176 0.3 Priced via matrices 255 0.4 210 0.3 Priced via other methods 292 0.4 246 0.4 Short term investments(1) 4,938 7.3 4,802 7.5 Total $ 67,604 100.0 % $ 63,785 100.0 % (1) Short term investments are primarily valued at amortized cost, which approximates fair value. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties. As such, the estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ significantly from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold immediately. Real Estate Fair value is established at the time of acquisition by internal analysis or external appraisers, using discounted cash flow analyses and other acceptable techniques. The Company had no real estate held for sale at December 31, 2006 or 2005. Venture Capital Investments Other investments include venture capital investments, which are generally non publicly traded instruments in early stage companies and, historically, have a holding period of four to seven years. These investments have primarily been made in the health care, software and computer services, and networking 136 and information technologies infrastructures industries. The Company typically is involved with venture capital companies early in their formation, as they are developing and determining the viability of, and market demand for, their product. Generally, the Company does not expect these venture capital companies to record revenues in the early stages of their development, which can often take three to four years, and does not generally expect them to become profitable for an even longer period of time. Certain venture capital investments that are controlled by the Company are consolidated in the Companys financial statements. The underlying investments of these venture capital investments are reported at estimated fair value. The fair value of the venture capital investments is based on an estimate determined by the external fund manager and reviewed by the Company for investments in which there is no public market. The external fund manager reviews such factors as recent filings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth, and other business and market sector fundamental statistics in estimating fair values of specific investments. With respect to the Companys valuation of such non publicly traded venture capital investments, on a quarterly basis, the Companys portfolio managers and the external fund manager review and consider a variety of factors in determining the valuation of the investments and the potential for other than temporary impairments. Factors considered include the following: The investees most recent financing events; An analysis of whether a fundamental deterioration or improvement has occurred; Whether the investees progress has been substantially more or less than expected; Whether or not the valuations have improved or declined significantly in the investees market sector; Whether or not the external fund manager and the Company believe it is probable that the investee will need financing within six months at a lower price than our carrying value; and Whether or not the Company has the ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery, enabling it to receive value equal to or greater than our cost. The quarterly valuation procedures described above are in addition to the portfolio managers ongoing responsibility to frequently monitor developments affecting those invested assets, paying particular attention to events that might give rise to impairment write downs. Non Publicly Traded Investments The Companys investment portfolio includes non publicly traded investments, such as venture capital investments (as discussed above), private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships, and certain fixed income securities. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for joint ventures, limited partnerships and certain private equity securities. Certain other private equity investments, including venture capital investments are reported at estimated fair value. These non publicly traded securities are valued based on factors such as management judgment, recent financial information and other market data. 137 The following is a summary of the approximate carrying value of the Companys non publicly traded securities at December 31, 2006: (in millions) Carrying Value Investment partnerships, including hedge funds $ 2,077 Fixed income securities 208 Equity investments 176 Real estate partnerships and joint ventures 188 Venture capital 465 Total $ 3,114 Investment Impairments The Company recognizes an impairment loss when an invested assets value declines below cost, adjusted for accretion, amortization and previous other than temporary impairments (new cost basis), and the change is deemed to be other than temporary, or if it is determined that the Company will not be able to recover all amounts due pursuant to the issuers contractual obligations prior to sale or maturity. When the Company determines that an invested asset is other than temporarily impaired, the invested asset is written down to fair value and the amount of the impairment is included in earnings as a realized investment loss. The fair value then becomes the new cost basis of the investment and any subsequent recoveries in fair value are recognized at disposition. The Company recognizes a realized loss when impairment is deemed to be other than temporary even if a decision to sell an invested asset has not been made. When the Company has decided to sell a temporarily impaired available for sale invested asset and the Company does not expect the fair value of the invested asset to fully recover prior to the expected time of sale, the invested asset is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired in the period in which the decision to sell is made. Factors considered in determining whether a decline is other than temporary include the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, and the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. The Companys process for reviewing invested assets for impairments during any quarter includes the following: Identification and evaluation of investments that have possible indications of other than temporary impairment, which includes an analysis of investments with gross unrealized investment losses that have fair values less than 80% of cost for six consecutive months or more; Review of portfolio manager(s) recommendations for other than temporary impairments based on the investees current financial condition, liquidity, near term recovery prospects and other factors; Consideration of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or triggers that may cause individual investments to qualify as having other than temporary impairments; and Determination of the status of each analyzed investment as other than temporary or not, with documentation of the rationale for the decision. Sales of Temporarily Impaired Invested Assets The Company may, from time to time, sell invested assets subsequent to the balance sheet date that were considered temporarily impaired at the balance sheet date for several reasons. For all subsequent 138 sales of invested assets that were considered temporarily impaired at the balance sheet date, the Company contemporaneously documents its rationale for its change in intent or ability to hold to recovery. The rationale for the change in the Companys ability and intent generally focuses on changes in the economic facts and circumstances related to the invested asset subsequent to the balance sheet date, significant unforeseen changes in the Companys liquidity needs, or changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment. Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities An investment in a fixed maturity or equity security which is available for sale is impaired if its fair value falls below its cost or new cost basis and the decline is considered to be other than temporary. A fixed maturity security is other than temporarily impaired if it is probable that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due under the securitys contractual terms or where the Company does not have the intent to hold the security. Equity securities are other than temporarily impaired when it becomes apparent that the Company will not recover its cost over the expected holding period. Further, for securities expected to be sold, an other than temporary impairment charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security to recover prior to the expected date of sale. Additionally, for certain securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (including asset backed securities), the Company periodically updates its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security. If management determines that the fair value of a securitized financial asset is less than its carrying amount and there has been a decrease in the present value of the estimated cash flows since the last revised estimate, considering both timing and amount, then an other than temporary impairment is recognized. Real Estate Investments The carrying value of a real estate property is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The review for impairment includes an estimate of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the real estate property. An impairment loss is recognized if the expected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the real estate property. The impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Other Investments Mortgage Loans A mortgage loan is considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect principal and interest amounts due. For mortgage loans that are determined to be impaired, a reserve is established for the difference between the amortized cost and fair market value of the underlying collateral. In estimating fair value, the Company uses interest rates reflecting the current real estate financing market returns. Impaired loans were not material at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Venture Capital Investments and Non Publicly Traded Investments Venture capital investments and non publicly traded investments are reviewed quarterly for other than temporary impairment by the external fund manager and the Companys portfolio managers. An impairment loss is recognized if, based on the specific facts and circumstances, it is probable that the Company will not be able to recover all of the cost of an individual holding. For a further discussion, please see the venture capital investments and non publicly traded investments sections under the Valuation of Investments above. 139 Goodwill Impairments Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (FAS 142), provides guidance on accounting for goodwill subsequent to acquisition. Accordingly, the Company performs a review on at least an annual basis, of goodwill held by its reporting units, which are the Companys three operating and reportable segments: Business Insurance, Financial, Professional & International Insurance and Personal Insurance. In August 2006, the Company announced a realignment of two of its three reportable business segments. The former Commercial and Specialty segments were realigned into the Business Insurance segment and the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. The Personal segment was renamed Personal Insurance. Goodwill was reallocated among the reportable business segments to align the acquired business with the appropriate reporting segment. The impairment test, in accordance with FAS 142, is a two step process. The first step is to identify any potential impairment using a multiple of earnings approach to estimate the fair value of the reporting units. The fair values of the reporting units are then compared to their carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying amounts of the reporting units exceed their fair value, a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. The Companys review resulted in no impairment of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial condition, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Item 1A Risk Factors. FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may contain, and management may make, certain forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Specifically, the Company may make forward looking statements about the Companys results of operations (including, among others, premium volume, income from continuing operations, net and operating income and return on equity), financial condition and liquidity; the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among others, asbestos claim payment patterns); the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; and strategic initiatives. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates. The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements. 140 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2006. The Companys market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $72.27 billion and $68.29 billion, respectively, of which 87% and 86% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 6% of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk. The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 7 to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Managements Discussion and Analysis. The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.8% and 2.4% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. No other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 1.8% of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2006 or 2005. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. Near term means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. 141 Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2006 and 2005 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.3 billion and $2.2 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. As a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the Companys consolidated balance sheet, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the Companys exposure to foreign currencies. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $438 million and $374 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 142 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company). On April 1, 2004, Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) merged with a subsidiary of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (SPC), as a result of which TPC became a wholly owned subsidiary of SPC, and SPC changed its name to The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. For accounting purposes, this transaction was accounted for as a reverse acquisition with TPC treated as the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, this transaction was accounted for as a purchase business combination, using TPC historical financial information and applying fair value estimates to the acquired assets, liabilities, and commitments of SPC as of April 1, 2004. Beginning on April 1, 2004, the results of operations and financial condition of SPC were consolidated with TPCs. Accordingly, all financial information presented herein for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 reflects the consolidated accounts of SPC and TPC. The financial information presented herein for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 reflects only the accounts of TPC for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and the consolidated accounts of SPC and TPC for the nine months ended December 31, 2004. Effective February 26, 2007, The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. changed its name to The Travelers Companies, Inc. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 2006 Consolidated Results of Operations Income from continuing operations and net income of $4.21 billion, or $6.12 per share basic and $5.91 diluted Net favorable prior year reserve development of $394 million pretax ($255 million after tax) Net earned premiums of $20.76 billion GAAP combined ratio of 88.1% Pretax net investment income of $3.52 billion ($2.71 billion after tax) 2006 Consolidated Financial Condition Total assets of $113.76 billion, up $574 million from December 31, 2005 Total investments of $72.27 billion, up $3.98 billion from December 31, 2005; fixed maturities and short term securities comprise 94% of total investments Total debt of $5.76 billion, down $90 million from December 31, 2005 Repurchased 22.8 million common shares for total cost of $1.12 billion under share repurchase program Shareholders equity of $25.14 billion, up $2.83 billion from December 31, 2005; book value per common share of $36.86, up $4.92 from December 31, 2005 CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW The Company provides a wide range of property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals, primarily in the United States and in selected International markets. 69 Consolidated Results of Operations For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues Premiums $ 20,760 $ 20,341 $ 19,038 Net investment income 3,517 3,165 2,663 Fee income 591 664 706 Net realized investment gains (losses) 11 17 (39 ) Other revenues 211 178 176 Total revenues 25,090 24,365 22,544 Claims and expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses 12,244 14,927 15,439 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 3,339 3,252 2,978 General and administrative expenses 3,458 3,229 2,945 Interest expense 324 286 236 Total claims and expenses 19,365 21,694 21,598 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 5,725 2,671 946 Income tax expense 1,517 610 69 Minority interest, net of tax 10 Income from continuing operations 4,208 2,061 867 Discontinued operations: Operating income (loss), net of taxes (663 ) 88 Gain on disposal, net of taxes 224 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (439 ) 88 Net income $ 4,208 $ 1,622 $ 955 Income from continuing operations per share Basic $ 6.12 $ 3.04 $ 1.42 Diluted(1) $ 5.91 $ 2.95 $ 1.40 GAAP combined ratio Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 57.5 % 71.9 % 79.4 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.6 29.4 28.3 GAAP combined ratio 88.1 % 101.3 % 107.7 % (1) The weighted average number of common shares used in the diluted earnings per share calculation for the year ended December 31, 2004 excluded the potentially dilutive effect of the Companys convertible junior subordinated notes because their effect was anti dilutive. The Companys discussions related to all items, other than net income, income from continuing operations, income (loss) from discontinued operations, and segment operating income (loss), are presented on a pretax basis, unless otherwise noted. Throughout the following discussion, the Company references the impact of the merger in the context of a comparison between 2005 and 2004, referring to the fact that the Companys 2005 results reflected a full year of combined post merger operations, whereas the Companys 2004 results reflected combined post merger operations for the nine months subsequent to the April 1, 2004 merger date, plus the results of TPC only for the three months ended March 31, 2004. Overview Income from continuing operations in 2006 totaled $4.21 billion, or $5.91 per share diluted, compared with 2005 income from continuing operations of $2.06 billion, or $2.95 per share diluted. The $2.15 billion increase in 2006 operating results reflected a significant decline in catastrophe losses, net favorable prior 70 year reserve development, strong growth in investment income and higher business volume. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income. Catastrophe losses in 2006 totaled $103 million, primarily resulting from several wind, rain, hail and snow storms in the United States, whereas results in 2005 included $2.19 billion of catastrophe costs, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development of $394 million in 2006 primarily resulted from better than expected personal auto bodily injury loss experience and a decline in the frequency of non catastrophe related losses in the Homeowners and Other line of business in the Personal Insurance segment, favorable development on 2005 catastrophe losses in Personal Insurance and continued improvement in liability and property lines of business in the Business Insurance segment. This favorable development was partially offset by unfavorable prior year reserve development primarily related to increases in reserves for asbestos, environmental and certain assumed reinsurance business, all in the Business Insurance segment. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005 of $325 million was driven by a charge to strengthen asbestos reserves, which was partially offset by other non asbestos related net favorable prior year reserve development in all three business segments. Income from continuing operations in 2005 totaled $2.06 billion, or $2.95 per share diluted, compared with income from continuing operations of $867 million, or $1.40 per share diluted, in 2004. The increase in income in 2005 reflected the impact of the merger, improved non catastrophe related current year loss experience in the Companys three reportable business segments, a decline in net unfavorable prior year reserve development and strong growth in net investment income. These factors more than offset a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, which totaled $2.19 billion in 2005, compared with $772 million in 2004. The catastrophe losses in 2004 were primarily the result of four hurricanes that struck the southeastern United States in the third quarter. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005 totaled $325 million, compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $2.39 billion in 2004. The net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2004 was concentrated in the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments. Net unfavorable reserve development in the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments in 2004 more than offset additional income resulting from the merger and strong operating income generated by the Companys Personal Insurance segment. In 2005, the Company sold its equity interest in Nuveen Investments, which constituted its Asset Management segment. The Company recorded a net loss from discontinued operations of $439 million, consisting primarily of $710 million of tax expense which resulted from the difference between the tax basis and the GAAP carrying value of the Companys investment in Nuveen Investments, partially offset by the $224 million after tax gain on the divestiture and the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income for 2005. Income from discontinued operations of $88 million in 2004 represented the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income for the year. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2006 totaled $20.76 billion, an increase of $419 million, or 2%, over the 2005 total of $20.34 billion. Earned premiums in 2006 were negatively impacted by an increase in property catastrophe reinsurance costs. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $121 million of reinstatement premiums, which represent additional premiums payable to reinsurers to maintain coverage limits for certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 9% in 2006 reflected strong new business volume and continued renewal price increases. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2006 declined 2% from the comparable 2005 total, primarily reflecting the impact of business in runoff and the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. Earned premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment in 71 2006 increased 4% over 2005, primarily reflecting growth in Bond & Financial Products and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. The $1.30 billion increase in earned premiums in 2005 over 2004 primarily reflected the impact of the merger, which was partially offset by a significant decline in earned premiums in the Business Insurance segments runoff operations and a decline in certain of Business Insurances ongoing operations due to a lower level of net written premium volume in the last half of 2004 and first half of 2005. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by the $121 million of reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses. Earned premiums in 2004 were reduced by $76 million of reinstatement premiums primarily related to reserve charges recorded in the surety operation. Partially offsetting these factors were the impacts of new business growth and increased retention in many of the Companys insurance operations in 2005. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys investments. (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Average investments(a) $ 71,252 $ 66,695 $ 55,139 Pretax net investment income 3,517 3,165 2,663 After tax net investment income 2,712 2,438 2,020 Average pretax yield(b) 4.9 % 4.7 % 4.8 % Average after tax yield(b) 3.8 % 3.7 % 3.7 % (a) Adjusted for the impact of unrealized investment gains and losses, receivables for investment sales and payables on investment purchases. Reduced for payables for securities lending in 2004. (There were no such payables at December 31, 2006 or 2005). (b) Excluding net realized and unrealized investment gains and losses. Net investment income totaled $3.52 billion in 2006, an increase of $352 million, or 11%, over 2005 net investment income of $3.17 billion. The increase in 2006 was primarily the result of higher yields on short term and long term taxable securities, continued growth in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio resulting from strong cash flows from operating activities and a decline in investment expenses. Also contributing to investment income growth in 2006 was the full year impact of investment returns from the investment of $2.40 billion in proceeds from the divestiture of the Companys equity interest in Nuveen Investments during 2005. The Companys real estate joint venture investments, which are included in other investments, also produced strong levels of net investment income in 2006. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2006 totaled $62.24 billion, $3.63 billion higher than year end 2005. The average pretax investment yield was 4.9% in 2006 compared with 4.7% in 2005. The increase primarily reflected higher yields on taxable investments purchased in 2006 and the strong returns generated by the real estate joint venture investments. Net investment income of $3.17 billion in 2005 grew $502 million, or 19%, over 2004, reflecting the impact of the merger, as well as an increase in invested assets over the prior twelve months, higher short term interest rates and a decline in investment expenses. The increase in invested assets in 2005 was driven by strong cash flows from operating activities and the investment of the $2.40 billion in proceeds from the divestiture of the Companys equity interest in Nuveen Investments. The average pretax investment yield in 2005 of 4.7% declined slightly from 4.8% in 2004, due to the maturity of higher yielding bonds and a higher proportion of tax exempt investments. Net investment income in 2004 included $111 million from the initial public offering of one investment. The Company allocates invested assets and the related net investment income to its reportable business segments. Pretax net investment income is allocated based upon an investable funds concept, which takes into account liabilities (net of non invested assets) and appropriate capital considerations for 72 each segment. The investment yield for investable funds reflects the duration of the loss reserves future cash flows, the interest rate environment at the time the losses were incurred and A+ rated corporate debt instrument yields. The investment yield for capital reflects the average yield on the total investment portfolio. It is the application of the yields to the segments investable funds and capital that determines the respective business segments share of actual net investment income. Fee Income The National Accounts market in the Business Insurance segment is the primary source of the Companys fee based business. The declines in fee income in 2006 and 2005 compared with the respective prior years is described in the Business Insurance segment discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) Net pretax realized investment gains in 2006 totaled $11 million, compared with net pretax realized investment gains of $17 million in 2005. The 2006 total included $49 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $33 million) generated by the venture capital portfolio and $30 million of net realized investment gains related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts (which require a daily mark to market settlement and are used to shorten the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio). These gains were substantially offset by $33 million of net realized investment losses from the fixed maturity portfolio (including $7 million of impairment losses) and $22 million of net realized investment losses related to the Companys holdings of stock purchase warrants of Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., a publicly held company. In addition, the Company incurred net realized losses of $11 million related to the divestiture of two small subsidiaries. Net pretax realized investment gains in 2005 were primarily generated from sales of venture capital investments and equity securities. In addition, the Company realized a pretax gain of $21 million from the sale of its Personal Catastrophe Risk operation and $13 million of pretax net gains related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts. Net realized investment gains in 2005 were reduced by $109 million of impairment losses, which were concentrated in the venture capital portfolio as described in more detail later in this discussion. The Companys net pretax realized investment losses of $39 million in 2004 included impairment charges totaling $80 million. Net pretax realized investment gains (losses) in 2004 also included net losses of $44 million related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts. Further information regarding the nature of impairment charges in each year is included in the Investment Portfolio Management section later in this discussion. Other Revenues Other revenues in all periods presented primarily consist of premium installment charges. In addition, other revenues in 2006 included a $42 million gain on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.60% subordinated debentures. Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Business Insurance $ 13,047 $ 13,453 $ 13,034 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,981 3,809 3,113 Personal Insurance 7,011 6,474 6,111 Total $ 24,039 $ 23,736 $ 22,258 73 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Business Insurance $ 11,046 $ 10,999 $ 10,374 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,393 3,159 2,708 Personal Insurance 6,711 6,228 5,929 Total $ 21,150 $ 20,386 $ 19,011 Gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 1% and 4%, respectively, over 2005. The disparity between gross and net written premium growth rates in 2006 was concentrated in the Business Insurance segment and was primarily due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage in the Companys Discover Re subsidiary that resulted in a decline in ceded premiums. Net written premium volume in 2006 was negatively impacted by a higher level of premiums ceded for the cost of property catastrophe reinsurance, whereas net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by $121 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In Business Insurance, net written premium growth in 2006 was driven by strong increases in Target Risk Underwriting, due to significant renewal price increases for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures, and in Industry Focused Underwriting, due to growth in several industry sectors served by this market. That growth was largely offset by a reduction in premium volume for operations in runoff, primarilty due to the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in the fourth quarter of 2005. Business retention rates remained strong throughout the Business Insurance segment in 2006, and new business volume increased. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, written premium growth in 2006 reflected strong business volume throughout the segment, and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. Net written premium growth in the Personal Insurance segment in 2006 reflected growth in new business volume, renewal price increases and continued strong business retention rates, partially offset by the estimated impact of transitioning to six month policy terms in the second half of the year for a large portion of the Companys multivariate pricing Automobile product, and an increase in ceded premiums for catastrophe reinsurance. Gross and net written premiums in 2005 both increased 7% over 2004, primarily reflecting the impact of the merger. However, gross and net written premium volumes in 2005 were down when compared to 2004 on a pro forma combined basis. The declines were concentrated in the Business Insurance segment, reflecting the planned non renewal of business in runoff and reduced premium volume in certain ongoing operations due to competitive market conditions. In addition, premium volume in the Business Insurance segments Construction operation was lower than in 2004 on a pro forma basis due to the now completed process of aligning the underwriting profile of the two predecessor companies. Net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by $121 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, whereas 2004 net written premium volume was reduced by $76 million of reinstatement premiums primarily related to reserving actions in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. Premium volume in the Personal Insurance segment increased over 2004, driven by continued renewal price increases and growth in policies in force in the homeowners line of business. During 2005, the Company experienced strong business retention rates on a company wide basis, as the Company focused on retaining its existing book of well priced, profitable business. New business levels in several of the Companys insurance operations also increased over 2004. Rate increases, however, were generally lower in 2005 compared with 2004, reflecting increased competition and more aggressive pricing in the marketplace. Rates for certain products in selected markets declined from 2004 levels. In the first quarter of 2005, the Company implemented changes in the timing and structure of reinsurance purchased in the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments. The changes in structure resulted in an increase in ceded premiums in 2005 when compared with 2004. The Company also made a modest adjustment to 2004 ceded written premiums to report at inception all ceded written premiums for reinsurance agreements that have minimum amounts required to be ceded. Previously, ceded written premiums for certain of these agreements were reported over the life of the 74 contracts. This adjustment affected only the statistical disclosure of net written premiums on a quarter by quarter basis; it did not affect net written premium amounts over the lives of the respective agreements, nor did it impact gross written premiums, earned premiums, operating results or capital. The adjustment was made to conform the statistical measurement of production net written premiums across the Companys businesses. Claims and expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.24 billion in 2006, $2.68 billion less than the 2005 total of $14.93 billion. The 2006 total included $103 million of catastrophe losses and $394 million of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 total included $2.03 billion of catastrophe losses and $325 million of net unfavorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses in 2005 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was concentrated in the Personal Insurance segment, primarily reflecting better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. The Business Insurance segment also experienced net favorable prior year loss experience in its ongoing operations in 2006, primarily in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business. That favorable development was partially offset by increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, which are discussed in more detail in the Asbestos Claims and Litigation and Environmental Claims and Litigation sections herein. There was also unfavorable prior year reserve development in runoff assumed reinsurance business. In 2005, the net unfavorable prior year reserve development was concentrated in the Business Insurance segment and was primarily driven by an increase to asbestos reserves, which was partially offset by other, non asbestos related net favorable prior year reserve development in all three business segments. Claims and claim adjustment expenses of $14.93 billion in 2005 were $512 million lower than the 2004 total of $15.44 billion. The 2005 total included $2.03 billion of catastrophe losses, compared with $761 million of such losses in 2004. The cost of catastrophes is discussed in more detail in the following narrative. The 2005 total also included $325 million of net unfavorable prior year reserve development, as described above, compared with $2.39 billion of net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2004. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2005 also reflected improvement in current accident year non catastrophe related loss experience as compared with 2004. The 2004 net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $2.39 billion included a $928 million charge to increase asbestos reserves and a $290 million charge to increase environmental reserves. In addition, the 2004 total included charges to increase the acquired net construction and surety reserves by $500 million and $300 million, respectively, and a charge of $252 million related to the financial condition of a specific construction contractor. The following discussion provides more information regarding the net unfavorable prior year loss development related to these three items in 2004, as well as other reserving actions. Upon having access to each companys detailed policyholder information, including underwriting, claim, and actuarial files on April 1, 2004, in connection with the closing of the merger, the Company was able to begin the detailed process of developing a uniform and consistent approach to estimating the combined companys loss reserves. As part of that process, a team of actuaries representing the historical actuarial perspectives, judgments and methods applied by each legacy company, discussed their views, methodologies, and analysis of available data. In addition to the discussion in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of this report, other items specifically considered in the process of developing a uniform and consistent approach to estimating the combined companys loss reserves after the merger included interpreting the actuarial and claim data in a 75 uniform manner and determining an appropriate level of data segmentation for estimation purposes. This type of analysis involves a high degree of judgment and can, and often does, lead to reserve estimates that differ materially from those of prior periods, particularly in low frequency, high severity and complex exposures. In addition, since the reserving process also considers the expectations of future outcomes, the actuaries involved had to analyze their differing views on key assumptions, such as predicting inflation, estimating claim development patterns and determining expectations related to judicial rulings and interpretations, among others. This informed judgment is brought into the process by individuals such as actuaries, underwriters, claim adjusters, and company management. Ultimately, this process required an analysis of the varying actuarial judgments and forward looking assessments. The result was similar to a single, ongoing insurance enterprise obtaining more information in a reporting period than it had previously and identifying a change in estimate in its insurance reserves in that period. Accordingly, the Company recorded a $500 million and $300 million charge for construction and surety, respectively, in the second quarter of 2004. Construction Reserves. Beginning on April 1, 2004, upon the completion of the merger, personnel from the predecessor companies were able to share detailed policyholder information, claim files and actuarial data related to the acquired construction reserves. This enabled an analysis to be performed in the second quarter of the acquired construction reserves using TPCs long established practices that includes evaluating exposures by type of claim (e.g. construction defect, construction wrap up, other), by type of coverage (e.g. guaranteed cost, loss responsive, other) and by detailed line of business (general liability, commercial auto, etc.), among others. For general liability exposures, which include construction defect and construction wrap up, interpretation of underlying trends (both present and future) and the related reserve estimation process is highly judgmental due to the low frequency/high severity and complex nature of these exposures. In particular, for construction defect, there is a high degree of uncertainty relating to whether coverage exists, when losses occur, the size of each loss, expectations for future interpretive rulings concerning contract provisions and the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand geographically. As a result, material variations can and do occur among actuarial reserve estimates for these types of exposures. In a merger, these differences are likely to be even more pronounced. Prior to a merger, each legacy company consistently applies its assumptions, judgments and actuarial methods to estimate reserves. Differences between these assumptions, judgments and actuarial methods need to be understood and reconciled, and a uniform approach needs to be adopted for the merged entity. In this situation, material adjustments can and do occur for reserves related to exposures having a high degree of uncertainty. Analysis of the acquired construction reserves was completed near the end of the second quarter of 2004. Based upon the results of this analysis, the Company increased its estimate of the acquired net construction reserves by $500 million, including $400 million for construction defect and $100 million for construction wrap up claims, and recognized this change in estimate as an income statement charge in the second quarter. There was no reinsurance associated with this charge. Surety Reserves. Personnel from the predecessor companies were also able to share detailed SPC policyholder information related to surety reserves upon completion of the merger. Access to this detailed information enabled the Company to perform a claim by claim review of reserves and claims handling strategies during the second quarter of 2004 using the combined expertise of claims adjusters from the legacy companies. This type of review involves considerable judgment, especially with respect to the economic outlook within which claims will be settled, estimates for dates of loss occurrence and evaluations of IBNR exposures for each insured. For example, as a result of the detailed information obtained concerning contractors with reported claims, the Company considered whether or not losses were incurred but not yet reported on one or more additional projects for each contractor examined. Also on April 1, 2004, the Company could begin to use this detailed information to compare SPCs assumptions, judgments and actuarial methods that were underlying the acquired reserves with its own 76 assumptions, judgments and actuarial methods. Similarities and differences were found to exist. Similarities included, but were not limited to, recognizing claim reserves when it was determined that contractors and commercial surety insureds were in default and thereby unable to meet their obligations, estimating initial IBNR provisions, and periodically re evaluating, at least quarterly, the adequacy of the reserves established based on actual claims recorded and revised estimates of IBNR. Differences included judgments and methods related to determining IBNR development factors and expected salvage, among others. That these differences exist is not unusual for surety reserve estimates. Surety is a line of business for which there are low frequency, high severity, very complex claims for certain exposures, particularly those related to large construction contractors and commercial surety insureds. Determining the date of loss in these circumstances requires a high degree of judgment. In addition, the claim reserve estimates even for reported claims are also highly judgmental. These two factors, among others, combine to make IBNR reserve estimations for surety extremely difficult. Due to this high degree of uncertainty, the informed judgments of different actuaries could and do vary materially. As discussed above, in a merger, these differences are likely to be even more pronounced. The claim reviews and actuarial analyses were both completed near the end of the second quarter of 2004. Based upon the results of these reviews and analyses, the Company increased its estimate of the acquired surety reserves by $300 million, net of $170 million of reinsurance, and recognized this change in estimate as an income statement charge in the second quarter. Charge Related to the Financial Condition of a Specific Construction Contractor. Prior to the merger and beginning in the third quarter of 2003, SPC disclosed that a large construction contractor for which it had written several surety bonds was experiencing financial difficulty. Based upon an analysis of the financial condition of the construction contractor that was performed in the third quarter of 2003, a restructuring plan was adopted by the construction contractor, its banks, and SPC, among others, as a means to minimize estimated losses. SPC monitored the progress of the construction contractor toward meeting the requirements of the restructuring plan throughout subsequent quarters. SPC also estimated and disclosed its estimated ultimate net losses related to this exposure, beginning in the third quarter of 2003 and updated each quarter thereafter, including the effects of advances made or expected to be made to the construction contractor, applicable collateral, co surety participations and reinsurance. The size and complexity of these particular construction contracts, coupled with the deteriorating credit quality of the construction contractor and the inherent uncertainty as to whether it would meet the obligations of the restructuring plan, resulted in a high degree of judgment in estimating potential losses. A comprehensive analysis that began in the first quarter of 2004 was completed during the last half of the second quarter. Based upon this analysis, the Company concluded that the contractor would not be able to meet the targets set forth in its business and restructuring plans. Therefore, the Company moved from supporting the contractors restructuring plan to adopting a workout plan as a means to minimize estimated losses. Under the workout plan, the Company would no longer provide additional surety bonds for new projects of the construction contractor. Also as part of the workout plan, the Company was able to implement additional accounting and engineering procedures for each open project, which included using specialists to implement additional forecasting, cash management, and reporting procedures, on both a project by project and consolidated level. Based upon this second quarter change to a workout plan and the detailed financial analysis that was able to be performed, the Company increased its estimate of the ultimate net loss by $252 million, including $9 million of reinsurance. This estimate took into consideration paid amounts, net receivables, liquidated damages, overhead costs, additional completion costs, including costs associated with replacing the contractor, receivable discounts, current and future claims from owners and subcontractors against the contractor, and the value of collateral, among others. 77 The Company also commuted certain reinsurance agreements with a major reinsurer in 2004 resulting in a $113 million prior year reserve charge (in addition to a current year loss of $40 million). Commutations are a complete and final settlement with a reinsurer that results in a discharge of all obligations of the parties to the terminated reinsurance agreement. Cost of Catastrophes. In 2006, the cost of catastrophes totaled $103 million (net of reinsurance), all of which was incurred in the Personal Insurance segment and resulted from several wind, rain, hail and snow storms in the United States throughout the year. In 2005, the Companys cost of catastrophes, net of reinsurance and including reinstatement premiums of $121 million and state assessments of $43 million, totaled $2.19 billion, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Reinstatement premiums represent additional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of reinsured losses under certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties and are recorded as a reduction of net written and earned premiums. The majority of catastrophe costs in 2005 were incurred in the Business Insurance segment ($1.41 billion) and in the Personal Insurance segment ($593 million) In 2004, the cost of catastrophes, net of reinsurance, totaled $772 million, all of which resulted from four hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne that also made landfall in the southeastern United States. 78 General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses totaled $3.46 billion in 2006, an increase of $229 million, or 7%, over the comparable 2005 total of $3.23 billion. The increase in 2006 was driven by investments made throughout the Company to support business growth and product development, costs related to the Companys national advertising campaign and legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies (see Item 3 Legal Proceedings). These factors were partially offset by the impact of the favorable resolution of certain prior year state tax matters, certain tax benefits, the absence of catastrophe related state assessments and lower premium tax related expenses. The $284 million increase in general and administrative expenses in 2005 compared with 2004 primarily reflected the impact of the merger. In addition, the 2005 total included $43 million of state assessments related to catastrophe losses, and also reflected investments made for process re engineering and to support business growth and product development, primarily in the Personal Insurance segment. These factors were partially offset by the benefit of expense efficiencies achieved since the completion of the merger. Included in the 2005 and 2004 totals were $112 million and $92 million, respectively, of amortization expense related to finite lived intangible assets acquired in the merger, and a benefit of $12 million and $58 million, respectively, associated with the accretion of the fair value adjustment to claims and claim adjustment expenses and reinsurance recoverables. The 2004 total included a $62 million increase in the allowance for uncollectible amounts due from policyholders for loss sensitive business (primarily high deductible business). This increase resulted from applying the Companys credit based methodology for determining uncollectible amounts to the recoverables acquired in the merger. General and administrative expenses in 2004 also included $29 million of restructuring charges related to the merger. Other 2004 Claims and Expenses. Other items increasing the 2004 claims and expenses included $296 million of charges to increase the allowances for estimated uncollectible amounts due from reinsurance recoverables, policyholders receivables, and co surety participations on a specific construction contractor claim. The increase in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables recognized a change in estimated disputes with reinsurers and is based upon the Companys reinsurance strategy of reduced reinsurance utilization, including the cessation of ongoing business relationships with certain of SPCs reinsurers, and aggressive collection of reinsurance recoverables. A charge was also recorded to increase the estimated uncollectible amounts due from policyholders for loss sensitive business (primarily high deductible business). This increase recognized a change in estimated uncollectible amounts due and resulted from applying the Companys credit based methodology for determining uncollectible amounts to the recoverables acquired in the merger. Because reinsurance recoverables and amounts due from policyholders for loss sensitive business are insurance contract related assets, these assets are subject to the same types of estimation variables as loss reserves. During the second quarter of 2004, a participating co surety on the specific construction contractor described above announced that insurance regulators had approved its submitted run off plan. Based upon industrys knowledge of the co suretys run off plan and the Companys analysis of its financial condition, the Company concluded that it was unlikely to collect the full amount projected to be owed by the co surety and established an appropriate level of reserves. In the second quarter of 2005, the Company reached a settlement with the co surety whereby the co surety made a payment to the Company and was released from further financial obligations to the Company in connection with the specific construction exposure. The settlement payment, coupled with the previously established co surety reserves, approximated the Companys estimate of the co suretys share of the bonded losses related to this exposure. Interest Expense Interest expense in 2006 was $38 million higher than in 2005, primarily due to the issuance in November 2005 of $400 million, 5.50% senior notes due December 1, 2015, and the issuance in June 2006 79 of $400 million, 6.25% senior notes due June 20, 2016 and $400 million, 6.75% senior notes due June 20, 2036. The proceeds from the 2006 debt issuances were used to fund the redemption and maturity in 2006 of certain of the Companys outstanding debt. The $50 million increase in interest expense in 2005 over 2004 primarily reflected the impact of a full year of interest expense on SPC debt assumed in the merger on April 1, 2004. The Companys debt outstanding at December 31, 2005 declined by a net $463 million compared with year end 2004. Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was 26.5%, 22.8% and 7.3% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2006 and 2005 effective rate reflected a higher level of pretax income associated with profitable underwriting performance. The low 2004 effective rate primarily reflected the impact of nontaxable investment income on a lower level of pretax income. GAAP combined ratios The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.5% in 2006 improved by 14.4 points compared with 2005, primarily reflecting the decline in catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses accounted for 0.5 points of the 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, compared with a 10.3 point impact in 2005. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 1.9 point impact from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 1.6 point impact from net unfavorable prior year reserve development. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development improved over the 2005 ratio on the same basis, reflecting improvement in frequency and severity trends in several lines of business. The underwriting expense ratio for 2006 was 1.2 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio in 2005. The changes primarily reflect the impact of the increase in general and administrative expenses described previously. In addition, the 2006 ratio was negatively impacted by a decline in National Accounts fee income, a portion of which is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio in 2005 also included a 0.4 point impact from reinstatement premiums and state assessments. Catastrophe losses accounted for 10.3 points of the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, compared with 4.0 points in 2004. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2005 included a 1.6 point impact of net unfavorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2004 ratio included a 12.6 point impact of net unfavorable prior year reserve development. The 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio also reflected an improvement in current accident year non catastrophe related loss experience, compared with 2004, primarily reflecting reduced claim activity. The 1.1 point increase in the 2005 underwriting expense ratio compared with 2004 reflected the impact of reinstatement premiums, state assessments, increased commission expenses in the Personal Insurance segment and investments made for process re engineering and to support business growth and product development, primarily in the Personal Insurance segment. These factors were partially offset by expense efficiencies realized since the completion of the merger. Discontinued Operations In March 2005, the Company and Nuveen Investments jointly announced that the Company would implement a program to divest its 78% equity interest in Nuveen Investments, which constituted the Companys Asset Management segment and was acquired as part of the merger on April 1, 2004. The divestiture was completed through a series of transactions in the second and third quarters of 2005, resulting in net pretax cash proceeds of $2.40 billion. The Company recorded a net operating loss from discontinued operations of $663 million in 2005, consisting primarily of $710 million of tax expense due to the difference between the tax basis and the 80 GAAP carrying value of the Companys investment in Nuveen Investments, partially offset by the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income prior to divestiture. The Company recorded a pretax gain on disposal of $345 million ($224 million after tax) in 2005. Income from discontinued operations of $88 million in 2004 represented the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income for the year. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of the Companys Business Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 10,876 $ 11,116 $ 10,929 Net investment income 2,538 2,341 1,980 Fee income 591 663 706 Other revenues 44 64 60 Total revenues $ 14,049 $ 14,184 $ 13,675 Total claims and expenses $ 10,509 $ 12,968 $ 13,297 Operating income $ 2,622 $ 1,044 $ 460 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 60.3 % 81.5 % 87.1 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.6 28.9 28.1 GAAP combined ratio 90.9 % 110.4 % 115.2 % Overview Operating income of $2.62 billion was $1.58 billion higher than operating income of $1.04 billion in 2005, primarily reflecting the absence of catastrophe losses, net favorable prior year reserve development, the continuation of favorable current year loss trends and a strong increase in net investment income. The Business Insurance segment incurred no catastrophe losses in 2006, whereas in 2005, the cost of catastrophes totaled $1.41 billion (including reinstatement premiums of $67 million), resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $21 million in 2006, compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $757 million in 2005 that was primarily driven by an increase in asbestos reserves. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income in 2006. Operating income of $1.04 billion in 2005 was significantly higher than operating income of $460 million in 2004, primarily due to a reduction in net unfavorable prior year reserve development, the impact of the merger and a strong increase in net investment income. These factors were partially offset by a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes in 2005. Net unfavorable prior year development totaled $757 million in 2005, compared with $2.03 billion in 2004. The 2005 total was primarily driven by a charge to increase asbestos reserves, whereas the 2004 total included $1.22 billion of charges to increase asbestos and environmental reserves, and the $500 million charge to increase construction reserves acquired in the merger, which is described in more detail in the Consolidated Overview section herein. The cost of catastrophes totaled $1.41 billion in 2005, compared with $532 million in 2004. Catastrophes in both years were the result of the hurricanes described in the Consolidated Overview section herein. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $10.88 billion in 2006 decreased by $240 million, or 2%, compared with 2005, as premium increases in the majority of the segments ongoing operations were more than offset by the continuing decline in other runoff operations earned premiums, including the impact of the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. The Personal Catastrophe Risk operation 81 accounted for $111 million of earned premiums in 2005. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $67 million of reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses. The $187 million increase in earned premiums in 2005 compared with 2004 primarily reflected the impact of the merger, which was largely offset by a significant decline in runoff operations, where business was intentionally being non renewed, and a decline in certain ongoing operations due to a lower level of written premium volume in the last half of 2004 and first half of 2005. In addition, catastrophe related reinstatement premiums reduced net earned premium volume in 2005 by $67 million. Net Investment Income Refer to the Net Investment Income section of the Consolidated Results of Operations discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2006 and 2005. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to its service businesses, which include claim and loss prevention services to large companies that choose to self insure a portion of their insurance risks, and claims and policy management services to workers compensation residual market pools. The $72 million decline in fee income in 2006 resulted from lower serviced claim volume in workers compensation residual market pools, the impact on fee income from lower loss costs due to California workers compensation reforms and lower new business volume due to increased competition. In 2005, the $43 million decline in fee income compared with 2004 was primarily due to increased competition, including the loss of several large customers in the second half of 2004 and early 2005. Claims and Expenses Claim and claim adjustment expenses in 2006 totaled $6.85 billion, down $2.51 billion from the 2005 total of $9.36 billion. The 2005 total included catastrophe losses of $1.32 billion, nearly all of which resulted from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, whereas the 2006 total included no catastrophe losses. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $21 million in 2006. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005 was $757 million. The 2006 net favorable prior year reserve development was primarily concentrated in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business, partially offset by increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, as well as reserve strengthening for assumed reinsurance business in runoff. The commercial multi peril and liability lines of business experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including improving legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The favorable prior year reserve development in the property line of business primarily reflected less demand surge inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe and catastrophe losses. Demand surge refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. The commercial automobile line of business experienced better than expected loss development which was attributable to the favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The reserve strengthening in assumed reinsurance was primarily due to changes in projected loss development driven by an unanticipated change in the claim settlement patterns of the underlying casualty exposures. In 2005, net unfavorable prior year reserve development was driven by an increase to asbestos reserves of $830 million and reserve strengthening for environmental and assumed reinsurance, which is in runoff. Those increases were partially offset by favorable prior year reserve development from lower frequency and severity for both casualty and property related lines of business. Drivers of the reduction in both frequency and severity were increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments, coupled with better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. Company initiatives 82 relating to claims handling, which affected claims staffing and workflows, also are believed to have contributed to the emergence of favorable severity experience in 2005. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2005 of $9.36 billion declined from the 2004 total of $9.84 billion. Included in those totals were $1.32 billion and $532 million, respectively, of catastrophe losses (net of reinsurance). Net unfavorable prior year reserve development totaled $757 million in 2005, as described above. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development totaled $2.03 billion in 2004, which included a $928 million charge to strengthen asbestos reserves, a $290 million charge to strengthen environmental reserves and the $500 million charge to increase construction reserves acquired in the merger described in the Consolidated Overview section herein. Also included in the net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2004 was a $174 million addition to the reserve for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables, $150 million recorded in TPCs Construction operation prior to the merger, $74 million from the commutation of agreements with a major reinsurer and other net unfavorable prior year reserve development, primarily concentrated in the Companys Gulf operations. Results in 2004 also reflected increased current year loss ratios on portions of the Construction book of business. Partially offsetting the impact of these factors was favorable prior year reserve development in several core Business Insurance operations, which resulted from reductions in the frequency of non catastrophe related losses attributable to improved underwriting and pricing strategies in prior years, the results of which emerged in 2004. Approximately half of the $155 million 2006 pre tax increase to asbestos reserves was due to an increase in the projected defense costs for ten policyholders. Additionally, $15 million of the pretax reserve adjustment was attributable to a delay in the approval and expected payment of the previously announced settlement with PPG Industries, Inc. as part of the Pittsburgh Corning bankruptcy reorganization plan. The remainder of the reserve adjustment was primarily due to continued litigation activity against smaller, peripheral defendants. In 2005, the asbestos charge resulted, in part, from higher than expected defense costs due to increased trial activity for seriously impaired plaintiffs and prolonged litigation before cases are settled or dismissed. The 2005 charge also considered the January 2006 court decision voiding, on procedural grounds, the previously rendered favorable arbitration decision in the ongoing ACandS litigation. The asbestos charge recorded in 2004 primarily resulted from an increase in litigation costs and activity surrounding peripheral defendants. The $120 million environmental reserve addition in 2006 was primarily due to higher than expected defense and settlement costs. In 2005, the environmental reserve charge was primarily related to declaratory judgment costs, whereas the significant 2004 charge was related to revised estimates of costs related to settlement initiatives. See the Asbestos Claims and Litigation and Environmental Claims and Litigation sections herein for further discussion of these reserves. General and administrative expenses in 2006 totaled $2.10 billion, 3% higher than the comparable total of $2.04 billion in 2005. The increase in 2006 primarily reflected the segments expenditures to support business growth and product development, the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign and legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies. General and administrative expenses in 2005 were 4% higher than the 2004 total of $1.95 billion, which primarily reflected the impact of the merger. The 2004 total included merger related charges and an increase in the allowance for uncollectible amounts due from policyholders. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2006 of 60.3% improved by 21.2 points compared with the 2005 ratio of 81.5%, primarily due to the absence of catastrophe losses and net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 (versus net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005). Catastrophe losses accounted for 12.3 points of the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 provided a 0.2 point benefit to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005 accounted for 6.8 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio excluding catastrophe 83 losses and prior year reserve development improved over the 2005 ratio on the same basis, reflecting improvement in frequency and severity trends in several lines of business. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2005 included a 12.3 point impact from catastrophe losses, compared with a 4.9 point impact from catastrophe losses in 2004. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development accounted for 6.8 points and 18.6 points, respectively, of the 2005 and 2004 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios. Excluding these factors from both years, the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved over the comparable 2004 ratio, reflecting the improvement in current accident year loss experience compared with 2004. The underwriting expense ratio for 2006 was 1.7 points higher than the 2005 ratio, primarily reflecting the increases in expenses described above, and the impact of declines in fee income. A portion of fee income is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. Catastrophe related reinstatement premiums of $67 million and catastrophe related state assessments of $18 million added 0.3 points to the 2005 expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio in 2005 was 0.8 points higher than 2004, primarily reflecting the intentional decline in runoff operations earned premiums, a decline in certain ongoing operations earned premiums due to a lower level of written premium volume in the last half of 2004 and first half of 2005, and the 0.3 point negative impact of reinstatement premiums and catastrophe related state assessments referred to previously. These factors were partially offset by the favorable impact of merger related expense savings throughout the segment and personnel reductions in the Business Insurance Other sector. The 2004 underwriting expense ratio included the impact of merger related restructuring charges and an increase in the allowance for uncollectible amounts due from policyholders. Written Premiums The Business Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Select Accounts $ 2,733 $ 2,799 $ 2,631 Commercial Accounts 2,613 2,535 2,463 National Accounts 2,169 2,627 2,410 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,279 2,154 1,785 Target Risk Underwriting 2,187 2,040 1,809 Specialized Distribution 1,036 920 816 Total Business Insurance Core 13,017 13,075 11,914 Business Insurance Other 30 378 1,120 Total Business Insurance $ 13,047 $ 13,453 $ 13,034 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Select Accounts $ 2,663 $ 2,722 $ 2,555 Commercial Accounts 2,376 2,330 2,273 National Accounts 1,135 1,230 1,040 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,196 2,080 1,747 Target Risk Underwriting 1,629 1,482 1,345 Specialized Distribution 1,022 908 807 Total Business Insurance Core 11,021 10,752 9,767 Business Insurance Other 25 247 607 Total Business Insurance $ 11,046 $ 10,999 $ 10,374 84 In Business Insurance Core operations, gross written premiums in 2006 were down slightly from 2005. Net written premiums in 2006, however, increased slightly over 2005. The disparity between gross and net written premium growth rates in 2006 was primarily due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage in the Companys Discover Re subsidiary in National Accounts that resulted in a decline in ceded premiums. For purposes of comparison between 2006 and 2005 net written premium volume, the impact of a higher level of ceded premiums for property catastrophe reinsurance in 2006 was virtually equivalent to the impact of the $67 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums in 2005. Net written premium growth in Business Insurance Core operations in 2006 was primarily concentrated in Target Risk Underwriting and Industry Focused Underwriting, driven by continued strong business retention rates, renewal price increases and higher new business volume throughout the majority of businesses comprising these markets. The decline in National Accounts net written premiums primarily reflected a reduction in premiums related to favorable loss experience on business priced on a loss sensitive basis and lower new business volume, partially offset by the decline in ceded premiums at Discover Re due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage. In Business Insurance Other operations, gross and net written premiums were down significantly from the comparable 2005 totals, reflecting the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005 and the intentional non renewal of business in the runoff operations comprising this category. In 2005, Business Insurance Core gross and net written premiums in 2005 increased 10% over the comparable 2004 totals, primarily reflecting the impact of the merger. However, 2005 written premium volume in Business Insurance Core operations declined when compared with 2004 on a pro forma combined basis, reflecting increased competition in the marketplace and the repositioning of the Construction book of business. Throughout Business Insurance Core operations (excluding Construction, due to the impact of repositioning the book of business), business retention levels increased over 2004, renewal pricing was flat with 2004, and new business levels improved over 2004. Net written premiums in 2005 for Business Insurance Core operations were reduced by $67 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In Business Insurance Other operations, gross and net written premiums declined 66% and 59%, respectively, from the comparable 2004 totals, primarily reflecting the intentional non renewal of business in the runoff operations comprising this category. Select Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.66 billion in 2006 declined 2% from 2005, primarily reflecting the impact of a reduction in premium volume from certain national small business insurance programs, the majority of which was transferred to the Specialized Distribution market. Excluding the impact of the business transferred, net written premiums increased by approximately 2% in 2006. Business retention rates remained strong and increased over 2005, and focused investments in technology and personnel led to improvement in new business volume over 2005. Renewal price changes for the Select Accounts market in 2006 were consistent with 2005, as modest pricing pressures in non coastal coverages were largely offset by price increases for coastal coverages. In 2005, net written premiums grew 7% over 2004, primarily reflecting the impact of the merger. However, 2005 written premiums declined from 2004 on a pro forma combined basis. Business retention levels in 2005 increased over 2004 and were also at historically high levels. Renewal price changes in 2005 were in the low single digit range for the year, which was lower than renewal price increases in 2004. New business levels in 2005 declined slightly from 2004. 85 Commercial Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.38 billion in 2006 increased 2% over 2005, driven by a strong increase in business retention rates and an improvement in renewal pricing. In 2005, net written premiums of $2.33 billion grew $57 million, or 3%, over 2004 volume of $2.27 billion, reflecting the impact of the merger. However, 2005 net written premiums declined from 2004 on a pro forma combined basis, although business retention rates in this market in 2005 increased over 2004. New business volume also grew over 2004. Renewal price changes in 2005 in Commercial Accounts declined from 2004 and were in the low single digits for the year, reflecting the increased competitive market conditions. National Accounts. Net written premiums in 2006 declined by $95 million, or 8%, from 2005, primarily reflecting a reduction in premiums related to favorable loss experience on business priced on a loss sensitive basis and lower new business volume, partially offset by the decline in ceded premiums at Discover Re due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage. In 2005, net written premiums grew $190 million, or 18%, over 2004, reflecting the impact of the merger and changes in Discover Res reinsurance program. Industry Focused Underwriting. Net written premiums of $2.20 billion increased by 6% over 2005, driven by growth in the Construction and Oil & Gas business units. Favorable economic conditions in these industry sectors, significant increases in business retention rates and continued strong new business volume contributed to the increase in premium volume in 2006 in these two business units. The remaining three business units in this market Technology, Agribusiness and Public Sector all achieved lesser degrees of net written premium growth over 2005. Net written premium volume of $2.08 billion in 2005 increased 19% over the 2004 total of $1.75 billion, primarily reflecting the impact of the merger. On a pro forma combined basis, Constructions net written premiums in 2005 declined from 2004, reflecting lower business volumes related to the process of aligning the underwriting profile of the two predecessor companies during the latter half of 2004 and the first half of 2005. Oil & Gas net written premiums in 2005 grew significantly over 2004, primarily due to the impact of the merger, strong business retention rates and higher new business volume. Target Risk Underwriting. Net written premiums of $1.63 billion in 2006 increased by 10% over 2005, driven by strong growth in the National Property and Inland Marine business units. Significant renewal price increases, particularly for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures, and strong business retention rates were the primary factors accounting for net written premium growth in these two business units in 2006. The Ocean Marine business unit also contributed to net written premium growth in 2006, primarily due to a decrease in the amount of business ceded. In 2005, net written premiums of $1.48 billion were 10% higher than 2004 net written premium volume of $1.35 billion, driven by the impact of the merger. On a pro forma combined basis, however, net written premium volume in 2005 declined from 2004, primarily due to competitive market conditions for property and inland marine coverages. Ocean Marine premium volume grew significantly in 2005, driven by renewal rights transactions. Specialized Distribution. Net written premium volume in 2006 of $1.02 billion increased 13% over 2005, primarily driven by the transfer of certain national small business insurance programs from Select Accounts to the National Programs business unit. In addition, Northland also experienced premium growth in 2006, primarily resulting from higher business retention rates and new business volume in commercial trucking, its primary line of business. In 2005, net written premium volume of $908 million grew $101 million, or 13%, over 2004 net written premiums of $807 million. The growth in 2005 was concentrated in National Programs and primarily reflected the impact of the merger and the transfer of certain program business from Commercial Accounts. On a pro forma combined basis, net written premiums in 2005 were level with 2004. In Business Insurance Other, the 90% and 59% declines in 2006 and 2005 net premium volume, respectively, compared with the respective prior years reflected the impact of business in runoff and the sale of the Companys Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. The runoff healthcare, 86 reinsurance and international business acquired in the merger produced minimal written premium volume in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Financial, Professional & International Insurance Results of the Companys Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 3,321 $ 3,197 $ 2,529 Net investment income 429 360 235 Fee income 1 Other revenues 26 20 17 Total revenues $ 3,776 $ 3,578 $ 2,781 Total claims and expenses $ 2,968 $ 2,961 $ 3,284 Operating income (loss) $ 609 $ 391 $ (322 ) Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 53.7 % 56.8 % 92.5 % Underwriting expense ratio 35.3 35.7 37.0 GAAP combined ratio 89.0 % 92.5 % 129.5 % Overview Operating income of $609 million in 2006 increased by $218 million, or 56%, over 2005. The improvement was driven by the absence of catastrophe losses in 2006, an increase in net investment income and growth in business volume, partially offset by a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and an increase in general and administrative expenses. Operating income in 2006 also benefited from favorable tax impacts from businesses outside of the United States, including an $18 million benefit associated with the pending sale of the Companys Mexican surety subsidiary, Afianzadora Insurgentes, S.A. de C.V. No catastrophe losses were incurred in 2006, whereas results in 2005 included $191 million in catastrophe costs, the majority of which resulted from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $14 million in 2006, compared with $72 million in 2005. Operating income of $391 million in 2005 improved by $713 million over the operating loss of $322 million in 2004. The significant improvement in 2005 operating income reflected net favorable prior year reserve development, as well as strong net investment income, improved current accident year results in Bond & Financial Products, and lower commission expenses in several lines of business. Operating results in 2005 included a cost of catastrophes of $191 million, compared with $51 million in 2004. The operating loss of $322 million in 2004 was driven by net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $739 million, including significant charges related to the surety reserves acquired in the merger and other reserving actions, which are described in more detail in the Consolidated Overview section herein. Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2006 increased $124 million, or 4%, over 2005, primarily driven by growth in Bond & Financial Products. In addition, earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $33 million of reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses, primarily in the Companys operations at Lloyds. Earned premium volume in International and Lloyds in 2006 declined slightly from 2005, primarily reflecting the elimination of a one month reporting lag at Lloyds in 2005 that resulted in $48 million of additional earned premiums being included in 2005 results. Also contributing to the decline in earned premiums in International and Lloyds in 2006 was the sale of certain classes of personal lines business at Lloyds in the first quarter of 2005, which had accounted for $43 million of earned premiums in 2005. 87 Earned premiums in 2005 increased $668 million, or 26%, over 2004, primarily reflecting the impact of the merger. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $33 million in catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. Earned premiums in 2005 also reflected the inclusion of one additional month of premium volume to eliminate a reporting lag at the Companys operations at Lloyds, the impact of which was partially offset by the sale of certain classes of personal insurance business at those Lloyds operations. Earned premiums in 2004 were reduced by $76 million of reinstatement premiums primarily related to a reserve charge in Bond & Financial Products. Net Investment Income Refer to the Net Investment Income section of the Consolidated Results of Operations discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2006 and 2005. Claims and Expenses Claims and claims adjustment expenses in 2006 totaled $1.79 billion, compared with $1.82 billion during the same period of 2005. The 2006 total included no catastrophe losses and $14 million of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 total included $158 million of catastrophe losses and $72 million of net favorable prior year reserve development. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2005 was attributable to the better than anticipated favorable impact from changes in underwriting and pricing strategies for International property related exposures. Claim and claim adjustment expenses totaled $1.82 billion in 2005, down significantly from the 2004 total of $2.35 billion. The 2005 total included $158 million of catastrophe losses, compared with $40 million of catastrophe costs recorded in 2004. Catastrophe losses in both periods were driven by the hurricanes described previously. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2005 of $72 million was driven by International. Net unfavorable prior year reserve development totaled $739 million in 2004, which included the $300 million charge to increase the estimate of the acquired net surety reserves in Bond & Financial Products, and the $252 million charge related to the financial condition of a specific construction contractor, both of which are described in more detail in the Consolidated Overview section herein. Results in 2004 also reflected a $60 million reserve increase related to the commutation of agreements with a major reinsurer, a charge to increase the allowance for estimated uncollectible amounts due from a co surety on a specific construction contractor claim, and increased current year loss ratios on portions of the Bond & Financial Products book of business. General and administrative expenses in 2006 totaled $536 million, an increase of 5% over 2005. The increase in 2006 primarily reflected the segments expenditures to support business growth and the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign and legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies. General and administrative expenses in 2005 totaled $509 million, an increase of 26% over the 2004 total of $405 million which primarily reflected the impact of the merger. The 2005 total included the impacts of a decline in commission expenses and expense efficiencies realized as a result of the merger. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 53.7% in 2006 was 3.1 points lower than the ratio of 56.8% in 2005. The 2006 ratio included no impact of catastrophe losses and a 0.4 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 ratio included a 5.5 point impact from catastrophes and a 2.3 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Excluding those factors in each year, the 2006 ratio was slightly higher than the 2005 ratio. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2004 included a 2.0 point impact from catastrophe losses, and a 29.3 point impact from net 88 unfavorable prior year reserve development. Excluding both factors in each year, the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved by 7.6 points compared with the 2004 ratio, reflecting the significant improvement in current year loss experience in 2005. The underwriting expense ratio in 2006 improved by 0.4 points compared with 2005, benefiting from the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums and increased business volume. Reinstatement premiums of $33 million increased the 2005 underwriting expense ratio by 0.4 points. In 2005, the underwriting expense ratio improved 1.3 points compared with 2004, reflecting the impact of the merger and expense efficiencies realized since the completion of the merger. Written Premiums Financial, Professional & International Insurance gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,657 $ 2,531 $ 2,102 International and Lloyds 1,324 1,278 1,011 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,981 $ 3,809 $ 3,113 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,255 $ 2,117 $ 1,819 International and Lloyds 1,138 1,042 889 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,393 $ 3,159 $ 2,708 The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 5% and 7%, respectively, over 2005. Growth in net written premium volume in 2006 resulted from strong construction surety volume in Bond & Financial Products, strong price increases for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures in the Companys operations at Lloyds, strong business retention rates and new business volume in International, and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. The Bond & Financial Products category represents the combination of the Companys previous Bond and Financial & Professional Services marketing groups. The elimination of a reporting lag at the Companys operations at Lloyds resulted in $39 million and $31 million of additional gross and net written premium volume in 2005, respectively. In Bond & Financial Products (excluding the surety line of business, for which these are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2006 remained strong and increased over 2005, while renewal price increases remained positive, but declined from 2005. New business volume was down from 2005. For International in 2006, business retention rates increased over 2005, renewal price changes declined slightly and new business volume increased when compared with 2005. Net written premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment for 2005 were reduced by $33 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, primarily related to the Companys operations at Lloyds. Gross and net written premiums in 2005 increased 22% and 17%, respectively, over written premium volume in 2004. The increase in gross and net written premiums in 2005 primarily reflected the impact of the merger. Net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by the $33 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, whereas net written premiums in 2004 were reduced by $76 million of reinstatement premiums primarily related to reserving actions in Bond & Financial Products. Gross and net written premiums in 2005 declined compared with 2004 volume on a pro forma combined basis. 89 Contributing to the decline in written premiums was the sale of certain credit related personal lines classes of business previously written at Lloyds in 2005. The decline was partially offset by the elimination of the reporting lag at Lloyds and premium growth in Bond & Financial Products. In 2005, approximately $114 million of gross written premiums previously written in the Companys Gulf operation (included in the Business Insurance segment) were written in Bond & Financial Products, compared with $90 million of gross written premiums in 2004. In Bond & Financial Products excluding surety, business retention rates in 2005 increased slightly over 2004. New business volume and renewal price changes were also higher than in 2004. As discussed previously, in the first quarter of 2005, the Company implemented changes in the timing and structure of reinsurance purchased, which resulted in a slight increase in Financial, Professional & International Insurance ceded premiums in 2005 over what would have been ceded prior to the changes being implemented. In International in 2005, business retention rates increased, and new business volume declined compared with 2004. Personal Insurance Results of the Companys Personal Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 6,563 $ 6,028 $ 5,580 Net investment income 548 457 442 Other revenues 94 96 91 Total revenues $ 7,205 $ 6,581 $ 6,113 Total claims and expenses $ 5,555 $ 5,464 $ 4,732 Operating income $ 1,132 $ 775 $ 939 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 54.8 % 62.2 % 58.3 % Underwriting expense ratio 28.3 26.9 24.9 GAAP combined ratio 83.1 % 89.1 % 83.2 % Overview Operating income of $1.13 billion in 2006 was $357 million, or 46%, higher than operating income of $775 million in 2005. Results in 2006 reflected a significant decline in catastrophe losses, strong growth in business volume, continued favorable current accident year loss trends and an increase in net investment income, partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses. Catastrophe losses in 2006 totaled $103 million, which resulted from several wind, rain, hail and snow storms throughout the year in the United States. Results in 2005 included a cost of catastrophes of $593 million, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Results in both years benefited from significant net favorable prior year reserve development, which totaled $359 million in 2006 and $360 million in 2005. Operating income of $775 million in 2005 was $164 million lower than operating income of $939 million in 2004, largely due to the $593 million cost of catastrophes. The cost of catastrophes in 2004 totaled $189 million, the majority of which resulted from four hurricanes that struck the southeastern United States. The Personal Insurance segment benefited from continued low non catastrophe related frequency levels, net favorable prior year reserve development of $360 million and strong net investment income levels in 2005. 90 Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $6.56 billion in 2006 increased 9% over the 2005 total of $6.03 billion, primarily due to significant new business volume, renewal price increases and continued strong business retention rates over the prior twelve months. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $21 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. Earned premiums of $6.03 billion in 2005 increased $448 million, or 8%, over 2004 earned premiums of $5.58 billion, reflecting continued strong business retention levels, new business volumes and renewal price increases over the prior twelve months. Net Investment Income Refer to the Net Investment Income section of the Consolidated Results of Operations discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2006 and 2005. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2006 totaled $3.60 billion, compared with $3.75 billion in 2005. The $154 million decline primarily reflected a reduction in catastrophe losses, which was partially offset by the impact of higher business volume in 2006. Catastrophe losses totaled $103 million in 2006, down significantly from the 2005 total of $547 million. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 and 2005 was $359 million and $360 million, respectively. The net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was driven by better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. In the Automobile line of business, for 2006 and 2005, the improvement was partially driven by better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices. These changes included practices which have allowed case reserves to be established more accurately earlier in the claim settlement process, thereby changing historical loss development patterns. In addition, for both years, industry and Company initiatives to fight fraud in several states led to a decrease in the total number of claims and a change in historical loss development patterns. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 and 2005 was partially driven by a significant decrease in the number of claims, attributable to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. These changes also resulted in a change in historical loss development patterns. In addition, for 2006, non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other loss experience was favorable due to continued evidence of a less than expected impact from demand surge, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. Approximately $100 million of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 resulted from a reduction in loss estimates for catastrophes incurred in 2005, primarily due to lower than expected additional living expense losses related to Hurricane Katrina. In 2005, claims and claim adjustment expenses included catastrophe losses of $547 million, compared with $189 million in 2004. Catastrophe losses in both years were primarily the result of hurricanes. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2005 was $360 million, as described above, compared with net favorable prior year reserve development of $378 million in 2004. In 2004, net favorable prior year reserve development in the Homeowners and Other line of business was driven by a significant decrease in the number of claims, attributable to changes in the marketplace, including higher policy deductible levels and fewer small dollar claims. These changes resulted in a change in the historical loss development patterns. Net favorable prior year reserve development in the Automobile line of business was driven by better than expected frequency and severity which is believed to have been caused by societal trends. In addition, both 91 industry and internal initiatives to fight fraud in several states caused a decrease in the total number of claims, as well as a change in the historical loss development patterns. General and administrative expenses totaled $804 million in 2006, an increase of $139 million, or 21%, over the 2005 total of $665 million. The increase in expenses over 2005 reflected increased business volume, the segments continued investments to support business growth and product development, legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies, and the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign. The 2005 total included $25 million of catastrophe related assessments. In 2005, general and administrative expenses were $129 million higher than the 2004 total of $536 million, primarily reflecting business growth, investments to support business growth and the catastrophe related assessments. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 54.8% in 2006 was 7.4 points lower than the comparable 2005 ratio of 62.2%. The 2006 ratio included a 1.6 point impact of catastrophe losses and a 5.5 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. The 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 9.3 point impact of catastrophe losses and a 6.0 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Excluding those factors from both years, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2006 was slightly lower than the comparable 2005 ratio, reflecting continued favorable trends in current accident year loss experience. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2004 included a 3.4 point impact from catastrophe losses and a 6.8 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Excluding the impact of these factors in both 2005 and 2004, the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved over the 2004 ratio, reflecting better current accident year loss experience. The underwriting expense ratio of 28.3% in 2006 was 1.4 points higher than the 2005 expense ratio of 26.9%, primarily reflecting the impact of the increase in general and administrative expenses described above, and a slight increase in commission expenses. In 2005, reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses reduced earned premium volume by $21 million, and catastrophe related assessments from various insurance pools increased taxes, licenses and fees by $25 million. These factors combined to result in a 0.5 point unfavorable impact on the Personal Insurance segments 2005 underwriting expense ratio. The 2.0 point increase in the underwriting expense ratio in 2005 compared with 2004 reflected an increase in commission expenses, other insurance expenses, and taxes, licenses and fees, and the 0.5 point impact of reinstatement premiums and catastrophe related assessments described above. The increase in commissions reflected a changing product mix and higher agent profit sharing expenses. The increase in other insurance expenses reflected the impact of process re engineering investments and investments in personnel, technology and infrastructure to support business growth and product development. Written Premiums The Personal Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by product line were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Automobile $ 3,731 $ 3,526 $3,470 Homeowners and Other 3,280 2,948 2,641 Total Personal Insurance $7,011 $6,474 $6,111 92 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Automobile $ 3,692 $ 3,477 $ 3,433 Homeowners and Other 3,019 2,751 2,496 Total Personal Insurance $ 6,711 $ 6,228 $ 5,929 Gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 8% over 2005. Net written premium volume in 2006 reflected increased costs for property catastrophe coverage (which reduces net written premiums), while net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by $21 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In the Automobile line of business, net written premium growth of 6% in 2006 over 2005 primarily reflected a strong increase in new business, partially offset by the impact of transitioning to six month policy terms in the second half of the year for the Companys multivariate pricing product that resulted in a lower amount of reported net written premiums in 2006. Business retention rates in the Automobile line of business remained strong and consistent with prior year rates. Renewal price changes in 2006 remained positive but were slightly below those in 2005. New business volume in 2006 was significantly higher than in 2005. The Companys multivariate pricing product in the Automobile line of business had been introduced in 37 states and the District of Columbia by the end of 2006. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2006 grew 10% over 2005. Business retention rates and new business volume in this line of business remained strong and increased over 2005. Renewal price changes in 2006 remained positive but declined from 2005. Net written premium volume in this line of business in 2006 also benefited from cross selling initiatives involving the Companys automobile multivariate pricing product. Gross and net written premiums in 2005 increased 6% and 5%, respectively, over 2004. Growth in 2005 was concentrated in the Homeowners and Other product line, driven by continued renewal price increases and new business volume. Business retention rates in both the Automobile and Homeowners and Other lines of business remained strong, and were consistent with 2004. In the Automobile line, renewal price increases in 2005 remained positive, but declined when compared with 2004. However, new business volume in 2005 in the Automobile line increased over 2004, primarily due to the introduction of the Companys new multivariate pricing product in selected states. The Personal Insurance segment had approximately 7.1 million and 6.6 million policies in force at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In the Automobile line of business, policies in force at December 31, 2006 increased 10% over the same date in 2005. Policies in force in the Homeowners and Other line of business at December 31, 2006 grew by 8% over the same date in 2005. 93 Interest Expense and Other (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net loss $ (163 ) $ (184 ) $ (182 ) The $21 million decline in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2006 compared with 2005 was primarily due to a $27 million after tax gain realized on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.6% subordinated debentures. Results in 2006 also reflected the favorable resolution of various prior year federal and state tax matters and the absence of expenses associated with the amortization of discount on forward contracts related to the Companys divestiture of Nuveen Investments that impacted the 2005 loss. These factors were partially offset by incremental interest expense in 2006 due to the issuance in November 2005 of $400 million, 5.50% senior notes due December 1, 2015, and the issuance in June 2006 of $400 million, 6.25% senior notes due June 20, 2016 and $400 million, 6.75% senior notes due June 20, 2036. The increase in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2005 over 2004 was primarily due to incremental interest expense on debt assumed in the merger and a reduction in net investment income, which were mostly offset by the absence of non recurring merger related charges and a reduction in non interest related other expenses in 2005. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While the Company has experienced a decrease in asbestos claims over the past two years, the Company continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from the Companys policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against the Companys policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants, the focus by plaintiffs on new and previously peripheral defendants and entities seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos related liabilities. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including the Company. Bankruptcy proceedings have also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Recently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on new and previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the loss and loss expense payments experienced by the Company. In addition, the Companys asbestos related loss and loss expense experience is impacted by the exhaustion or unavailability due to insolvency of other insurance potentially available to policyholders along with the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants. The Company continues to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, including, among others, ACandS, Inc., who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. (See Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings). In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in policyholders favor and other Company defenses are not successful, the Companys coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. 94 Accordingly, although the Company has seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to the Company but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for the Company. As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. In addition, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, challenging insurers conduct in respect of asbestos claims, and, as discussed below, claims by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos related bodily injuries. The Company anticipates the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) has entered into settlement agreements, which have been approved by the court in connection with the proceedings initiated by TPC in the Johns Manville bankruptcy court. On March 29, 2006, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders, while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders which required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Five appeals from the March 29, 2006 ruling were filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and TPC filed a cross appeal. Two appellants have voluntarily dismissed their appeals and a motion to dismiss the cross appeal was filed. Additionally, TPC appealed from a procedural order of the district court relating to the timeliness of the cross appeal. On January 17, 2007, the Second Circuit dismissed TPCs cross appeal and denied TPCs appeal from the procedural order. The three remaining principal appeals have been consolidated for disposition and remain pending. It is not possible to predict how the appellate court will rule on the pending appeals. If the rulings of the district court are affirmed through the appellate process, then TPC will have resolved substantially all of the pending direct action claims against it. (Also, see Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings). Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder annually on a policyholder by policyholder basis. In the course of this review, the Company considers, among other factors: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of each policyholders potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a products/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. For those policyholders for which an estimate of the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and related claim adjustment expense is determined, the Company calculates, by each policy year, a ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, past ceded experience and reinsurance collections. Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves. The Companys evaluations have not resulted in any data from which a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment may be determined. The Company also compares its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid 95 activity. Net asbestos losses and expenses paid in 2006 were $469 million, compared with $399 million in 2005. The $70 million net increase is primarily the result of lower reinsurance billings in 2006. Approximately 50% in 2006 and 42% in 2005 of total net paid losses related to policyholders with whom the Company previously entered into settlement agreements limiting the Companys liability. At December 31, 2006, net asbestos reserves totaled $4.05 billion, compared with $4.36 billion at December 31, 2005. The Company recorded pre tax asbestos reserve additions of $155 million, $830 million and $928 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, pursuant to the completion of the Companys annual ground up asbestos exposure review, which included an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder category, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions. Approximately half of the $155 million 2006 pretax reserve adjustment was due to an increase in the projected defense costs for ten policyholders. Additionally, $15 million of the pretax reserve adjustment was attributable to a delay in the approval and expected payment of the previously announced settlement with PPG Industries, Inc. as part of the Pittsburgh Corning bankruptcy reorganization plan. The remainder of the reserve adjustment was primarily due to continued litigation activity against smaller, peripheral defendants. The asbestos reserve addition in 2005 resulted, in part, from higher than expected defense costs due to increased trial activity for seriously impaired plaintiffs and prolonged litigation before cases are settled or dismissed. The 2005 reserve addition also considered the January 2006 court decision voiding, on procedural grounds, the previously rendered favorable arbitration decision in the ongoing ACandS litigation (described in more detail in note 15). The asbestos reserve addition recorded in 2004 primarily resulted from an increase in litigation costs and activity surrounding peripheral defendants. As in prior years, the 2006 annual review considered active policyholders and litigation cases, including cases challenging the applicability of aggregate limits on asbestos claims. Developing payment trends among policyholders in the Home Office and Field Office as well as Assumed and International categories were also analyzed. In 2006 the Home Office and Field Office categories, which account for the vast majority of the number of policyholders, experienced an overall reduction in new claim filings as well as in gross indemnity and defense payments over prior years. The Company has recently observed the following developments in the asbestos environment: the emergence of more stable payment trends for a greater proportion of policyholders; a decrease in the number of new claims received; a decrease in the number of large asbestos exposures reflecting additional settlement activity; a decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies; and the absence of new theories of liability or new classes of defendants. While there remains uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims, the Company believes that the factors noted above have led to a reduction in the overall volatility associated with its asbestos exposure. As a result of these favorable changes in the asbestos environment, and particular in the emergence of more stable payment patterns, beginning in 2007 the Company is now able to supplement the existing annual in depth process and the existing quarterly asbestos review process with additional aggregate quarterly reserve analyses. These additional analyses provide the Company with an increased ability to detect and respond to emerging trends, including reflecting any such trends, in its quarterly reserve estimates. 96 The Company categorizes its asbestos reserves as follows: Number of Policyholders Total Net Paid Net Asbestos Reserves (at and for the year ended December 31, $ in millions) 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 Policyholders with settlement agreements 27 28 $ 235 $ 169 $ 879 $ 1,357 Home office, field office and other 1,762 1,748 197 172 2,678 2,483 Assumed reinsurance and International 37 58 494 524 Total 1,789 1,776 $ 469 $ 399 $ 4,051 $ 4,364 The policyholders with settlement agreements category includes structured agreements, coverage in place arrangements and, with respect to TPC, Wellington accounts and the settlement of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims (for a fuller description of these matters, see Item 3 Legal Proceedings) (collectively the Direct Action Settlement). Reserves are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement. Structured agreements are arrangements under which policyholders and or plaintiffs agree to fixed financial amounts to be paid at scheduled times. In May 2002, Pittsburgh Plate and Glass Company (PPG) and the Company, along with three dozen other insurers of PPG, agreed on key terms to settle asbestos related coverage litigation under insurance policies issued to PPG. This settlement was to be incorporated into the Plan of Reorganization (the Plan) proposed as part of the Pittsburgh Corning (PC) bankruptcy proceeding. Pursuant to the proposed PC Plan, PC along with enumerated other companies (including PPG and Corning) were to receive protections afforded by Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code from certain asbestos related bodily injury claims. In prior years the reserves associated with this agreement were included in the structured settlement category. On December 21, 2006, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania declined to confirm the Plan. Confirmation of the Plan was one of the many conditions to the May 2002 resolution with PPG. Various parties to the PC bankruptcy have filed motions for reconsideration. It is not possible to predict how or when the bankruptcy court will rule on these motions. As a result of the December 21, 2006 ruling, it is uncertain whether the terms of the May 2002 settlement will ever be fully satisfied and thus the Company has removed the reserves associated with this agreement from the structured settlement category and has made a corresponding increase in its unallocated IBNR reserve. Coverage in place arrangements represent agreements with major policyholders on specified amounts of coverage to be provided. Payment obligations may be subject to annual maximums and are only made when valid claims are presented. Wellington accounts refer to the 35 defendants that are parties to a 1985 agreement settling certain disputes concerning insurance coverage for their asbestos claims. Many of the aspects of the Wellington agreement are similar to those of coverage in place arrangements in which the parties have agreed on specific amounts of coverage and the terms under which the coverage can be accessed. As more fully described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, TPC has entered into the Direct Action Settlement which is still subject to a number of contingencies. If those contingencies are met, then TPC will pay up to $502 million, possibly in calendar year 2007. One of the contingencies includes affirmance by all appellate courts of the orders entered by the United States Bankruptcy Court with respect to the Direct Action Settlement. It is not possible to predict how or when the appellate courts will rule on the pending appeals. Home office, field office and other relates to policyholders for which settlement agreements have not been reached, and also includes unallocated IBNR. Policyholders are identified for home office review based upon, among other factors: aggregate ultimate expected payments in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential non product exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In addition to IBNR amounts contained in the reserves for home office and field office policyholders, the Company has established a reserve for further adverse 97 development related to existing policyholders, new claims from policyholders reporting claims for the first time and policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation and direct actions against the Company. Assumed reinsurance exposure primarily consists of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. International is exposed to U.S. asbestos liabilities through participations in excess insurance policies, quota share and excess of loss reinsurance policies, and retrocession policies, underwritten in the London insurance market. Details of exposures under the reinsurance and retrocession policies are identified only when the Company is advised by the retrocedant. The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 5,103 $ 4,775 $ 3,782 Ceded (739 ) (843 ) (805 ) Net 4,364 3,932 2,977 Reserves acquired: Direct 502 Ceded (191 ) Net 311 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 196 833 941 Ceded (41 ) (3 ) (13 ) Net 155 830 928 Accretion of discount: Direct 1 1 17 Ceded Net 1 1 17 Losses paid: Direct 523 506 467 Ceded (54 ) (107 ) (166 ) Net 469 399 301 Ending reserves: Direct 4,777 5,103 4,775 Ceded (726 ) (739 ) (843 ) Net $ 4,051 $ 4,364 $ 3,932 See Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves. ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. 98 The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by the Company prior to the mid 1970s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and the Company does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. At December 31, 2006, approximately 81% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $337 million) was carried in a bulk reserve and included unresolved environmental claims, incurred but not reported environmental claims and the anticipated cost of coverage litigation disputes relating to these claims. The bulk reserve the Company carries is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate volume of in process environmental claims and the Companys experience in resolving those claims. The balance, approximately 19% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $81 million), consists of case reserves. The resolution of environmental exposures by the Company generally occurs by settlement on a policyholder by policyholder basis as opposed to a claim by claim basis. Generally, the Company strives to extinguish any obligations it may have under any policy issued to the policyholder for past, present and future environmental liabilities and extinguish any pending coverage litigation dispute with the policyholder. This form of settlement is commonly referred to as a buy back of policies for future environmental liability. In addition, many of the agreements have also extinguished any insurance obligation which the Company may have for other claims, including but not limited to asbestos and other cumulative injury claims. The Company and its policyholders may also agree to settlements which extinguish any future liability arising from known specified sites or claims. Provisions of these agreements also include appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect the Company. The Companys general purpose in executing these agreements is to reduce the Companys potential environmental exposure and eliminate the risks presented by coverage litigation with the policyholder and related costs. In establishing environmental reserves, the Company evaluates the exposure presented by each policyholder and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any. In the course of this analysis, the Company considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, the Company considers the many variables presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the policyholder at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between the Company and the policyholder, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. Conventional actuarial techniques are not used to estimate these reserves. In its review of environmental reserves, the Company considers: the adequacy of reserves for past settlements; changing judicial and legislative trends; the potential for policyholders with smaller exposures to be named in new clean up actions for both on and off site waste disposal activities; the potential for adverse development; the potential for additional new claims beyond previous expectations; and the potential higher costs for new settlements. The duration of the Companys investigation and review of these claims and the extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the value of the claim to the Company vary 99 significantly and are dependent upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of the policyholder in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the policyholder and the Company and the willingness of the policyholder and the Company to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute pertaining to these claims. Because these factors vary from claim to claim and policyholder by policyholder, the Company cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However, based upon the Companys experience in resolving these claims, the duration may vary from months to several years. The Company has continued to experience a decline in the number of policyholders tendering claims for the first time. These policyholders generally present smaller exposures, have fewer sites and are lower tier defendants. Further, regulatory agencies are utilizing risk based analysis and more efficient clean up technologies. However, the Company has experienced higher than expected defense and settlement costs. These increases have been driven in part by adverse judicial developments in certain states regarding the availability of coverage for environmental claims. As a result of these trends, the Company increased environmental reserves by $120 million in 2006. In 2005, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $30 million, primarily for declaratory judgment costs. In 2004, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $290 million due to revised estimates of costs related to settlement initiatives. The increases to environmental reserves in each year were net of reinsurance. Gross paid losses in 2006 and 2005 were $189 million and $248 million, respectively. TPC entered into a significant settlement with one policyholder in 2005. TPC executed an agreement with this policyholder which resolved all past, present and future hazardous waste and pollution property damage claims, and all related past and pending bodily injury claims. In addition, TPC and this policyholder entered into a coverage in place agreement which addressed the handling and resolution of all future hazardous waste and pollution bodily injury claims. Under the coverage in place agreement, TPC has no defense obligation, and there is an overall cap with respect to any indemnity obligation that might be owed. The first two payments related to this settlement were made during 2005 and the final payment was made in the first quarter of 2006. 100 The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 494 $ 725 $ 331 Ceded (69 ) (84 ) (41 ) Net 425 641 290 Reserves acquired: Direct 271 Ceded (58 ) Net 213 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 108 17 323 Ceded 12 13 (33 ) Net 120 30 290 Losses paid: Direct 189 248 200 Ceded (62 ) (2 ) (48 ) Net 127 246 152 Ending reserves: Direct 413 494 725 Ceded 5 (69 ) (84 ) Net $ 418 $ 425 $ 641 UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures described above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2006 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies the Company has issued, the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with the Companys previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against the Company and future developments pertaining to the Companys ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. In addition, the Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience has been impacted by the exhaustion or unavailability due to insolvency of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders along with the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants, although the Company has noted a recent decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation, including legislation related to asbestos reform. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of large coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the 101 case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos reserves, which includes an annual ground up review of asbestos policyholders, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. The Company completed its most recent annual ground up review during the third quarter of 2006. See Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2006 totaled $72.27 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate and 4% in other investments. Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a conservative investment philosophy. The Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2006 totaled $62.67 billion, comprising $62.46 billion of publicly traded fixed maturities and $208 million of private fixed maturities. The weighted average quality ratings of the Companys publicly traded fixed maturity portfolio and private fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2006 were AA1 and A3, respectively. Included in the fixed maturity portfolio at that date was approximately $1.78 billion of below investment grade securities. During 2006, holdings of tax exempt securities were increased to $35.63 billion to take advantage of their relatively high credit quality and attractive after tax yields. The average effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio, including short term investments, was 4.0 as of December 31, 2006 (4.3 excluding short term investments), compared with 3.9 as of December 31, 2005 (4.3 excluding short term investments). The following table sets forth the Companys combined fixed maturity investment portfolio classified by Moodys Investors Service ratings: (at December 31, 2006, in millions) Carrying Value Percent of Total Carrying Value Quality Rating: Aaa $ 41,578 66.3 % Aa 11,826 18.9 A 4,400 7.0 Baa 3,085 4.9 Total investment grade 60,889 97.1 Non investment grade 1,777 2.9 Total fixed maturity investments $ 62,666 100.0 % The Company makes investments in collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) that typically have high credit quality, offer good liquidity, and are expected to provide an advantage in yield compared to U.S. Treasury securities. The Companys investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches which offer the most favorable return given the risks involved. One significant risk evaluated is prepayment sensitivity. While prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration) and its effect on total return cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the investment process generally favors securities that control this risk within expected interest rate ranges. The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs. 102 At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company held CMOs classified as available for sale with a fair value of $3.56 billion and $3.43 billion, respectively (excluding Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities of $1.07 billion and $1.16 billion, respectively). Approximately 36% and 43% of the Companys CMO holdings are guaranteed by or fully collateralized by securities issued by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, the Company held $4.36 billion and $4.83 billion of GNMA, FNMA, FHLMC or FHA mortgage backed pass through securities classified as available for sale at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Virtually all of these securities are rated Aaa. The Companys real estate investments include warehouses and office buildings and other commercial land and properties that are directly owned. The Companys other investments primarily comprise venture capital, through direct ownership and limited partnerships, private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships and trading securities, which are subject to more volatility than the Companys fixed income investments, but historically have provided a higher return. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the carrying value of the Companys other investments was $3.40 billion and $3.17 billion, respectively. The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included as a separate component of accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Fixed maturities $ 422 $ 367 $ 1,252 Equity securities 37 41 72 Venture capital 108 89 11 Other investments (excluding venture capital) 113 (12 ) 2 Unrealized investment gains before tax 680 485 1,337 Provision for taxes 227 158 469 Net unrealized investment gains at end of year $ 453 $ 327 $ 868 Net pretax unrealized investment gains at December 31, 2006 increased by $195 million over year end 2005, primarily concentrated in the fixed maturity portfolio and in other investments carried at fair value. The increase in net unrealized investment gains on fixed maturities was primarily driven by the impact of declining market interest rates on tax exempt securities, which was partially offset by a slight increase in market interest rates on taxable securities. Net pretax unrealized investment gains at December 31, 2005 declined by $852 million from year end 2004, primarily reflecting an $885 million pretax decrease in the net unrealized gain on fixed maturities that was driven by an increase in market interest rates in 2005. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $78 million increase in pretax unrealized gains on the venture capital portfolio, which reflected favorable results from several of the investments comprising this category, net of losses realized through other than temporary impairments. Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains (losses) were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Fixed maturities $ 7 $ 11 $ 25 Equity securities 4 5 Venture capital 33 80 40 Other investments (excluding venture capital) 4 18 10 Total $ 48 $ 109 $ 80 103 For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $7 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $6 million resulting from the potential to sell various holdings prior to a recovery in market value, and $1 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position. $4 million in the equity portfolio when it became apparent that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period. $33 million in the venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings. Four of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Six holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Four of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. Two of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period. $4 million in its real estate and other investments (excluding venture capital). The loss recorded was the result of one mortgage loan refinancing at less favorable terms. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $11 million in the fixed maturities portfolio related to various issuers due to credit risk associated with the issuers deteriorated financial position. $80 million in the venture capital portfolio on 22 holdings. Two of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Fifteen holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Three of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. Two of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period. $18 million in its real estate and other investments (excluding venture capital). The losses recorded were the result of an equity partnership and a private stock holding which both experienced fundamental deterioration in their financial position. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $25 million in the fixed maturities portfolio related to various issuers due to credit risk associated with the issuers deteriorated financial position. $5 million in the equity portfolio when it became apparent that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period. $40 million in its venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings. Three of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Five holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Eight of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. $10 million in its real estate and other investments (excluding venture capital). The losses recorded were the result of falling rental rates and occupancies in three of the Companys real estate investment holdings. 104 The specific circumstances that led to the impairments described above did not materially impact other individual investments held during 2006, 2005 or 2004. The Company continually evaluates current developments in the market that have the potential to affect the valuation of the Companys investments. At December 31, 2006, the Company had no fixed maturities or equity securities available for sale for which fair value was less than 80% of amortized cost or cost, respectively. At December 31, 2006, non investment grade securities comprised 2.9% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio. Included in those categories at December 31, 2006 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $599 million and a fair value of $581 million, resulting in a net pretax unrealized investment loss of $18 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented less than 1% of the total amortized cost and less than 1% of the fair value of the fixed income portfolio at December 31, 2006, and accounted for 4% of the total pretax unrealized investment loss in the fixed income portfolio. Following are the pretax realized losses on investments sold during the year ended December 31, 2006: (in millions) Loss Fair Value Fixed maturities $ 121 $ 2,950 Equity securities 6 69 Other 1 1 Total $ 128 $ 3,020 Resulting purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Companys ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools, and is generally subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product offerings. The following presents the Companys top five reinsurer groups, by reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2006 (in millions): Reinsurer Group Reinsurance Recoverables A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Reinsurer Swiss Re Group $ 1,478 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Munich Re Group 1,125 A third highest of 16 ratings Berkshire Hathaway Group 900 A++ highest of 16 ratings American International Group 718 A+ second highest of 16 ratings XL Capital Group 552 A+ second highest of 16 ratings At December 31, 2006, $3.30 billion of reinsurance recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, trust agreements and escrow funds. 105 OUTLOOK The Companys strategic objective is to enhance its position as a consistently profitable market leader and a cost effective provider of property and casualty insurance in the United States and in selected international markets. A variety of factors continue to affect the property and casualty insurance market and the Companys core business outlook for 2007, including competitive conditions throughout the majority of markets served by the Companys business segments, loss cost trends, asbestos and environmental related developments and reinsurance and litigation costs. The Company expects property casualty market conditions to continue to be competitive throughout 2007. Relative to 2006, within the Business Insurance segment, the Company expects renewal price changes to moderate and terms, conditions and insured values to improve for exposures susceptible to catastrophe losses, such as coastal property and oil and gas related exposures, while renewal price changes for non catastrophe related exposures are expected to be subject to modest declines. Relative to 2006, within the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, the Company expects renewal price changes to be subject to modest declines. Also relative to 2006, within the Personal Insurance segment, the Company expects renewal price changes in the automobile and homeowners markets to remain relatively stable. The Company believes that the trend of increased severity and frequency of storms experienced in 2005 and 2004, although not evident in 2006, may continue in the foreseeable future. Given the trend of increased severity and frequency of storms, the Company has reassessed its definition of and exposure to coastal risks, as well as the impact on its reinsurance program. Accordingly, the Company is reviewing the pricing, exposures, return thresholds and terms and conditions it offers in coastal areas. In part as a result of the severity and frequency of storms in 2005 and 2004, the Companys cost of reinsurance has increased and the amount of reinsurance coverage purchased has been reduced. The cost of reinsurance may continue to increase and availability may continue to decline. To the extent that the Company is not able to reflect the potentially increased costs of increased severity and frequency of storms or reinsurance in its pricing, the Companys results of operations may be adversely impacted. In particular, in the Personal Insurance segment (and, to a lesser extent, in the Business Insurance segments Select Accounts market), the Company expects a delay in its ability to increase pricing to offset these potentially increased costs since the Company cannot increase rates to the extent necessary without the approval of the regulatory authorities of certain states. Also, particularly in light of the frequency and severity of storms in recent years, rating agencies have increased their capital requirements for the Company. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. States have from time to time passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from withdrawing from catastrophe prone areas. In addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies. The Companys ability or willingness to raise pricing, modify underwriting terms or reduce exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and or social responsibilities. The Company may also choose to write business it might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving access to other underwriting opportunities. With respect to non catastrophe related claim frequency, the industry has experienced unprecedented low levels over the last several years, a trend that the Company does not expect to change materially in 2007. The Company expects severity trend, the other component of loss trend, to continue to remain stable for non catastrophe related claims. Nevertheless, with continued pressure on pricing, it is possible that loss ratios will increase in certain parts of the Companys business in 2007. 106 Changes in the general interest rate environment affect the returns available on new investments. While a rising interest rate environment enhances the returns available on new fixed income investments, it reduces the market value of existing fixed maturity investments and the availability of gains on disposition. A decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments but increases the market value of existing investments and the availability of realized investment gains on disposition. In 2006, short term interest rates and long term taxable interest rates continued to increase. Additionally, yields available on new investments often exceeded those yields on investments maturing in the investment portfolio. The continuation of an upward trend in interest rates in 2007 would favorably impact the average book yield of the Companys fixed income holdings. If the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 and Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (the Program) is not renewed for periods after January 1, 2008, the benefits of the Program will not be available to the Company, and the Company will be subject to losses from acts of terrorism subject only to the terms and provisions of applicable policies, including policies written in 2007 for which the period of coverage extends into 2008. Given the unpredictable frequency and severity of terrorism losses, as well as the limited terrorism coverage in the Companys own reinsurance program, future losses from acts of terrorism, particularly those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could be material to the Companys operating results, financial condition and or liquidity in future periods, particularly if the Program is not renewed. There are currently various state and federal legislative and judicial proposals to require asbestos claimants to demonstrate an asbestos illness. At this time it is not possible to predict the likelihood or timing of such proposals being enacted or the effect if they are enacted. The Companys ongoing analysis of its asbestos reserves did not assume the adoption of any asbestos reforms. For information about the outlook with respect to asbestos related claims and liabilities see Asbestos Claims and Litigation and Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In addition, Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs. Although the United States federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation (e.g. the repeal of the McCarran Ferguson Act) and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. For a discussion of potential risks that could impact the Companys financial condition or results of operations, see Item 1A Risk Factors in this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. The Company also has access to liquidity through its shelf registration statement 107 with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its $1 billion line of credit. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities of continuing operations totaled $4.77 billion, $3.59 billion and $5.07 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Cash flows in 2006 reflected higher levels of collected premiums and net investment income, lower claim payments on catastrophe losses, as well as lower runoff claim payments. In addition, cash flows from operations in 2006 benefited from significant 2006 reinsurance recoveries related to 2005 hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. These factors were partially offset by higher interest payments and an increase in tax payments resulting from higher profitability. Cash flows in 2005 reflected an increase in loss and loss adjustment expense payments primarily related to the catastrophe losses incurred during 2005 and 2004, and an increase in tax payments resulting from higher profitability. Cash flows in 2004 included $867 million in cash proceeds received pursuant to the commutation of specific reinsurance agreements. Cash flows in 2004 also benefited from premium rate and volume increases. The Company utilized $11 million, $2.00 billion and $548 million of net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, thereby reducing current regular tax payments by $4 million, $698 million and $192 million, respectively. Net cash flows provided by operating activities for all three years were negatively impacted by payments for asbestos and environmental liabilities, as well as by payments for claims related to the Companys runoff operations. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities of continuing operations totaled $3.06 billion, $5.44 billion and $4.65 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Fixed maturity securities accounted for the majority of investment purchases in all three years. The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid intermediate term taxable U.S. government, corporate and mortgage backed bonds and tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed income investment portfolio generally produces a duration that exceeds the duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The average duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 4.0 at December 31, 2006, compared with 3.9 at December 31, 2005. The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, venture capital, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships and trading securities. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities, and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and 108 interest payments produced by the Companys fixed income portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed income portfolio exceeds the present value of the net insurance liabilities, plus the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds provides assurance of the Companys ability to fund the payment of claims without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. Sale of Subsidiary. The Companys cash flows in 2005 included $2.40 billion of pretax proceeds (after underwriting fees and transaction costs) from the divestiture of its equity interest in Nuveen Investments. Of this amount, $405 million was received directly by the Companys insurance subsidiaries, and the remainder was received directly by the holding company. Of the proceeds received directly by the holding company, $1.225 billion was contributed to the capital of the Companys insurance subsidiaries, with the remainder available for general corporate purposes. Holding company liquidity levels were increased in 2005 through dividends received from the Companys operating subsidiaries, the retained proceeds from the Nuveen Investments divestiture, the proceeds of $442 million from the issuance of common stock (described below) and the issuance of $400 million of 5.50% senior notes. At December 31, 2006, total cash, short term invested assets and other readily marketable securities aggregating $1.45 billion were held at the holding company level. The assets held at the holding company, combined with other sources of funds available, primarily additional dividends from operating subsidiaries, are considered sufficient to meet the liquidity requirements of the Company. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities of continuing operations totaled $1.59 billion, $473 million and $516 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2006 total primarily reflected common share repurchases and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by proceeds from employee stock option exercises. In 2005, the total primarily reflected the repayment of debt and dividends to shareholders, which were partially offset by the issuance of common stock pursuant to the maturity of equity unit forward contracts and the issuance of debt. Dividends paid to shareholders were the primary factor in cash used in financing activities in 2004. Debt Transactions. In June 2006, the Company issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2016 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2036. The notes were issued at a discount, resulting in effective interest rates of 6.30% and 6.86%, respectively. Net proceeds from the issuances (after original issue discount and expenses) totaled approximately $786 million, which the Company applied to the redemption of approximately $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures (described in more detail below), $150 million of 6.75% senior notes that matured on November 15, 2006 and $56 million of medium term notes that matured in the second half of the year. In November 2006, the Company redeemed $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures originally issued in 2001 and due October 15, 2050. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after November 13, 2006. In November 2001, St. Paul Capital Trust I, a business trust, issued $575 million of preferred securities, the proceeds of which, along with $18 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by the Company. Upon the Companys redemption of its subordinated debentures in November 2006, St. Paul Capital Trust I in turn used the proceeds to redeem its preferred securities. St. Paul Capital Trust I was then liquidated, and the Company received an $18 million distribution of capital. The Company recorded a $42 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, representing the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment 109 recorded at the merger date. A portion of the proceeds from the June 2006 debt issuances described above was used to fund this redemption. In 2005, the Company repaid $815 million of its outstanding debt, primarily comprised of the following: maturities of $238 million of 7.875% senior notes, $79 million of 7.125% senior notes, and $99 million of medium term notes bearing interest rates ranging from 6.44% to 7.09%; and a net repayment of commercial paper borrowings of $395 million. In November 2005, the Company issued $400 million of 5.50% senior notes maturing in December 2015. The majority of proceeds was used to fund the repayment of commercial paper borrowings, described above, with the remainder used for general corporate purposes. In July 2002, concurrent with the issuance of 17.8 million of SPC common shares in a public offering, SPC issued 8.9 million equity units, each having a stated amount of $50, for gross consideration of $442 million. Each equity unit initially consisted of a forward purchase contract for the Companys common stock, which matured in August 2005, and an unsecured $50 senior note of the Company (maturing in 2007). Total annual distributions on the equity units were at the rate of 9.00%, consisting of interest on the note at a rate of 5.25% and fee payments under the forward contract of 3.75%. Holders of the equity units had the opportunity to participate in a required remarketing of the senior note component. The initial remarketing date was May 11, 2005. On that date, the notes were successfully remarketed, and the interest rate on the notes was reset to 5.01%, from 5.25%, effective May 16, 2005. The remarketed notes mature on August 16, 2007. The forward purchase contract required the investor to purchase, for $50, a variable number of shares of the Companys common stock on the settlement date of August 16, 2005. The number of shares purchased was determined based on a formula that considered the average closing price of the Companys common stock on each of 20 consecutive trading days ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the settlement date, in relation to the $24.20 per share price of common stock at the time of the offering. On the August 16, 2005 settlement date, the Company issued 15.2 million common shares and received total proceeds of $442 million. In January 2007, the Company redeemed its 8.47%, $81 million subordinated debentures due January 10, 2027. The redemption was funded internally. An additional $1.02 billion of the Companys outstanding debt at December 31, 2006 will mature at various times during 2007. The Company plans to refinance these maturities during 2007. Share Repurchases. On May 2, 2006, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2 billion of the Companys common stock. Under this program, repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, in accordance with Rule 10b 18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, pursuant to pre set trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. This program does not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price, catastrophe losses and other market conditions. During 2006, the Company repurchased 22.8 million common shares under the program for a total cost of approximately $1.12 billion. The average cost per share repurchased in 2006 was $49.20. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company acquired 1.2 million, 0.8 million and 0.4 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $702 million, $628 million and $642 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. On February 7, 2007, the Companys Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.26 per share, payable March 30, 2007 to shareholders of record on March 9, 2007. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including the 110 Companys financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its Board of Directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (at December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 Debt: Short term $ 1,114 $ 310 Long term 4,588 5,393 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs 58 147 Total debt 5,760 5,850 Preferred shareholders equity 129 153 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 24,554 21,799 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 452 351 Total shareholders equity 25,135 22,303 Total capitalization $ 30,895 $ 28,153 The increase in shareholders equity in 2006 reflected the Companys strong net income for the year, partially offset by the impact of common share repurchases and dividends to shareholders. Line of Credit Agreement. The Company maintains an $800 million commercial paper program with back up liquidity consisting of a bank credit agreement. In June 2005, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion, five year revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions. Pursuant to covenants in the credit agreement, the Company must maintain an excess of consolidated net worth over goodwill and other intangible assets of not less than $10 billion at all times. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total consolidated debt to the sum of total consolidated debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control. At December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and all other covenants related to its respective debt instruments outstanding. Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, the Company has an option to increase the credit available under the facility, no more than once a year, up to a maximum facility amount of $1.5 billion, subject to the satisfaction of a ratings requirement and certain other conditions. There was no amount outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2006. Shelf Registration. In December 2005, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2006, the Company issued $800 million of senior debt (as described above) under this shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Capacity. At December 31, 2006, the Company had $879 million of capacity remaining under the original $2 billion share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in 2006. In January 2007, the Companys board of directors authorized a $3 billion increase to the program, which the Company currently expects to fully utilize by the first quarter of 2009, subject to the factors listed in the Share Repurchases section above. 111 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2006, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claims related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2006 that are expected to be settled in cash. The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. 112 The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments and estimated claims and claims related payments (gross of the estimated reinsurance recoveries), at December 31, 2006 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt(1) Medium term notes $ 242 $ 72 $ 149 $ 21 $ Convertible notes 893 893 Senior notes 3,992 942 400 250 2,400 Capital trusts 335 81 254 Zero coupon convertible notes 141 141 Private placement notes 12 3 5 4 Total debt principal 5,615 1,098 695 275 3,547 Interest 4,356 296 475 426 3,159 Total long term debt obligations 9,971 1,394 1,170 701 6,706 Operating leases(2) 908 185 298 153 272 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 131 54 50 27 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 120 20 40 40 20 Other purchase commitments(5) 80 35 6 3 36 Total purchase obligations 331 109 96 70 56 Long term unfunded investment commitments(6) 1,392 337 524 329 202 Estimated claims and claims related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 60,357 16,879 18,803 8,752 15,923 Claims from large deductible policies(8) Loss based assessments(9) 206 29 47 22 108 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 320 109 207 4 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 371 79 141 8 143 Total estimated claims and claims related payments 61,254 17,096 19,198 8,782 16,178 Total $ 73,856 $ 19,121 $ 21,286 $ 10,035 $ 23,414 (1) See note 7 of the notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 7. (2) Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3) Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4) In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through 2012. See note 15. (5) Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. 113 (6) Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for investments in real estate partnerships, private equities and hedge funds. (7) The amounts in Claims and claim adjustment expenses in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in Note 4 the notes to financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance receivables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claims adjustment expense) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance. (See below.) The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance receivables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance receivables $ 16,618 $ 4,592 $ 5,088 $ 2,385 $ 4,553 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expense, net $ 43,739 $ 12,287 $ 13,715 $ 6,367 $ 11,370 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2006. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance receivables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance receivables have been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of the financial statements.) (8) Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. Claims from large deductible policies represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as contractholder payables and 114 contractholder receivables, respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within Claims and claim adjustment expenses in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/ receivables $ 5,023 $ 1,274 $ 1,425 $ 719 $ 1,605 (9) The amounts in Loss based assessments relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. (10) The amounts in Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11) The amounts in Payouts from ceded funds withheld represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur future payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company is not required to make any contributions to its qualified pension plan in 2006 and does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to the qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, that together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. 115 The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $3.07 billion is available by the end of 2007 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The Company received $1.16 billion of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2006. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2006, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to agency loans and letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, third party loans related to venture capital investments and various indemnifications related to the sale of business entities to third parties. See note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claim and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment impairments and goodwill impairments. Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries, reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The reserves are reviewed regularly by a qualified actuary employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for loss and loss adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential 116 severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including but not limited to the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability will be different from that anticipated at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than currently reserved favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability by the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to, determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; and estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophes occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys loss reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation which totaled $4.47 billion at December 31, 2006. While the ongoing study of asbestos claims and associated liabilities and of environmental claims considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of Asbestos Claims and Litigation and Environmental Claims and Litigation. Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2006 2005 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 7,555 $ 12,414 $ 19,969 $ 8,198 $ 12,251 $ 20,449 Property 1,612 978 2,590 1,987 1,050 3,037 Commercial multi peril 1,940 2,693 4,633 2,448 2,901 5,349 Commercial automobile 2,573 1,801 4,374 2,792 1,885 4,677 Workers compensation 9,142 6,337 15,479 8,816 6,374 15,190 Fidelity and surety 1,035 838 1,873 1,240 673 1,913 Personal automobile 1,505 1,092 2,597 1,470 1,138 2,608 Homeowners and personal other 481 706 1,187 709 987 1,696 International and other 3,296 3,204 6,500 3,033 3,055 6,088 Property casualty 29,139 30,063 59,202 30,693 30,314 61,007 Accident and health 76 10 86 74 9 83 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 29,215 $ 30,073 $ 59,288 $ 30,767 $ 30,323 $ 61,090 117 The $1.80 billion decline in gross claim and claim adjustment expense reserves in 2006 primarily reflected payments related to prior year hurricane losses, claim and claim adjustment expense payments from runoff operations and favorable prior year reserve development, primarily in the Personal Insurance segment, partially offset by the impact of reserves acquired in the RITC transaction described in note 1. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril lines and International and other lines in the summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see Asbestos Claims and Litigation, Environmental Claims and Litigation and Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves. General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claim and claim expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Policies written on a claims made basis require that claims be reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The use of the occurrence form accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, and it is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, 118 including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed management judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application, on a consistent basis over time, of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag the greater the proportion of IBNR claims to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being low frequency/high severity, while lines without this large claim sensitivity are referred to as high frequency/low severity. Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, high frequency/low severity lines tend to have much greater spread of estimation risk, such that the impact of individual claims are relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when 119 faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimate selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. The merger of TPC and SPC resulted in the exposure of each others actuaries and claim departments to different products, data histories, analysis methodologies, claim settlement experts, and more robust data when viewed on a combined basis. This impacted the range of estimates produced by the Companys actuaries, as they reacted to new data, approaches, and sources of expertise to draw upon. It also resulted in additional levels of uncertainty, as past trends (that were a function of past products, past claim handling procedures, past claim departments, and past legal and other experts) may not repeat themselves, as those items affecting the trends change or evolve due to the merger. This also increased the potential for material variation in estimates, as experts can have differing views as to the impact of these frequently evolutionary changes. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends reestablish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty (risk factors) generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method and in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, resulting in an ultimate claim liability that is different from that being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants, and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in step wise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. 120 Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves. The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method(1), the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods.) While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, those evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analysis may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. The above is generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method which uses the earned premium for the current year multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through analysis of prior experience periods using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. (1) The paid and incurred development methods are sometimes also known as link ratio methods. 121 Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claim and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is due to the need to evaluate the underlying cause of the trends observed, and may include the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year 122 closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade for construction defect claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an occurrence basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a claims made basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately, such as asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such defense within the limits policies are most common for claims made products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. 123 This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the event triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also increase the potential recognition lag, i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure. The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved, and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice, and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. Besides the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development methods and S curves for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company utilizes the BF method more heavily than paid and case incurred development. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) 124 General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.6% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 3% to +14% (averaging +5%) for the Company and 4% to +7% (averaging +1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development came from certain business that has since been exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 26% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was +2% for 2006, +4% for 2005 and +10% for 2004. The 2006 change largely resulted from directors and officers and errors and omissions adjustments due to worse than expected large loss activity and additional information from detailed claim reviews, primarily associated with accident years 2002 and 2003. The 2005 change was the net result of numerous adjustments for various components with no individual item being a primary driver. The 2004 change was principally due to the construction defect and construction wrap up reserving actions discussed on page 76 of this narrative. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, demand surge inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations 125 Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to +26% (averaging 4%) for the Company and 14% to +7% (averaging 0%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development came from certain business that has since been exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change can be more volatile than the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property due to weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the last half of the year and generally dont clearly resolve until the following year. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 11% for 2006, 34% for 2005 and 18% for 2004. The 2006 change primarily reflected less demand surge inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe and catastrophe losses. The 2005 and 2004 changes were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. Such material changes did not materialize in 2006, 2005 or 2004. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property include larger customers. See Property risk factors and General liability risk factors, discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. 126 Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 6% to +2% (averaging 3%) for the Company and 2% to +6% (averaging +2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial multi peril reserves represent approximately 8% of the Companys total loss reserves. As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 4% for 2006, 6% for 2005 and 5% for 2004. The 2006 change was attributable to better than expected results due to, among other factors, increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2005 change was the result of increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments, coupled with better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. The 2004 change was primarily attributable to better than expected results from changes in underwriting and pricing strategies. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components; bodily injury liability, property damage liability, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received 127 Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 7% to +9% (averaging +1%) for the Company and 1% to +9% (averaging +2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 7% for 2006, 5% for 2005 and 2% for 2004. The 2006 change was due to better than expected loss development, primarily for accident years 2003 through 2005, which was attributable to favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The 2005 change was due to the effect of increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria, especially for accident year 2004. The 2004 change was due to better than expected results from underwriting and pricing strategies, especially for accident year 2003. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs 128 Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules (inflation) Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 2% to +2% (averaging 1%) for the Company and 2% to +4% (averaging +1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 26% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2006, 0% for 2005 and +1% for 2004. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit (1) These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment, or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 129 and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. 130 Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 15% to +138% (averaging +20%) for the Company and 9% to +24% (averaging +7%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 5% for 2006, 0% for 2005 and +138% for 2004. The 2006 change was due to better than expected large loss activity. The 2004 change resulted from acquired business, including a large construction contractor loss discussed on page 77 of this narrative. Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment 131 Personal automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to +1% (averaging 4%) for the Company and 7% to 0% (averaging 3%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 7% for 2006, 9% for 2005 and 6% for 2004. The decreases in 2006 and 2005 were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. The 2004 change was driven by better than expected frequency and severity, which is believed to have been principally caused by societal trends as well as fraud initiatives. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. 132 Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, demand surge inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 31% to +3% (averaging 11%) for the Company and 9% to +11% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 2% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change can be more volatile than the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property due to weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the last half of the year and generally do not clearly resolve until the following year. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 22% for 2006, +3% for 2005 and 31% for 2004. The 2006 change was due to lower than expected additional living expenses related to Hurricane Katrina as well as better than expected non catastrophe related frequency and severity, due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims, and continued evidence of a less than expected impact from demand surge. The 2005 change was driven by additional loss development from the 2004 Florida hurricanes. The 2004 change was driven by favorable 133 loss development, particularly from fewer claim counts for accident year 2003 as a result of changes in the marketplace, including higher policy deductible levels and fewer small dollar claims. International and other International and other includes products written by International and Lloyds and other products not discussed above. The principal component of other claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is primarily runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct), and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to prove not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) 134 International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, claims made language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 10% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses, and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. Changes in these estimates could result in additional income statement charges. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2006 declined by $31 million from the same date in 2005. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business and have the obligation of the participating insurance companies on a joint and several basis supporting these cessions. 135 The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2006 2005 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 12,837 $ 14,177 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (773 ) (804 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 12,064 13,373 Structured settlements 3,758 3,990 Mandatory pools and associations 1,998 2,211 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 17,820 $ 19,574 Investment Valuation and Impairments Valuation of Investments Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities Fixed maturities are valued based upon quoted market prices or dealer quotes, or if quoted market prices or dealer quotes are not available, discounted expected cash flows using market rates commensurate with the credit quality and maturity of the investment. Equity securities are valued based on quoted market prices. The following table identifies the fair value of fixed maturity securities by pricing source at December 31, 2006 and 2005. 2006 2005 (in millions) Fair Value % of Total Fair Value Fair Value % of Total Fair Value Priced via independent market quotations $ 61,946 91.6 % $ 58,351 91.5 % Priced via broker quotations 173 0.3 176 0.3 Priced via matrices 255 0.4 210 0.3 Priced via other methods 292 0.4 246 0.4 Short term investments(1) 4,938 7.3 4,802 7.5 Total $ 67,604 100.0 % $ 63,785 100.0 % (1) Short term investments are primarily valued at amortized cost, which approximates fair value. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties. As such, the estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ significantly from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold immediately. Real Estate Fair value is established at the time of acquisition by internal analysis or external appraisers, using discounted cash flow analyses and other acceptable techniques. The Company had no real estate held for sale at December 31, 2006 or 2005. Venture Capital Investments Other investments include venture capital investments, which are generally non publicly traded instruments in early stage companies and, historically, have a holding period of four to seven years. These investments have primarily been made in the health care, software and computer services, and networking 136 and information technologies infrastructures industries. The Company typically is involved with venture capital companies early in their formation, as they are developing and determining the viability of, and market demand for, their product. Generally, the Company does not expect these venture capital companies to record revenues in the early stages of their development, which can often take three to four years, and does not generally expect them to become profitable for an even longer period of time. Certain venture capital investments that are controlled by the Company are consolidated in the Companys financial statements. The underlying investments of these venture capital investments are reported at estimated fair value. The fair value of the venture capital investments is based on an estimate determined by the external fund manager and reviewed by the Company for investments in which there is no public market. The external fund manager reviews such factors as recent filings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth, and other business and market sector fundamental statistics in estimating fair values of specific investments. With respect to the Companys valuation of such non publicly traded venture capital investments, on a quarterly basis, the Companys portfolio managers and the external fund manager review and consider a variety of factors in determining the valuation of the investments and the potential for other than temporary impairments. Factors considered include the following: The investees most recent financing events; An analysis of whether a fundamental deterioration or improvement has occurred; Whether the investees progress has been substantially more or less than expected; Whether or not the valuations have improved or declined significantly in the investees market sector; Whether or not the external fund manager and the Company believe it is probable that the investee will need financing within six months at a lower price than our carrying value; and Whether or not the Company has the ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery, enabling it to receive value equal to or greater than our cost. The quarterly valuation procedures described above are in addition to the portfolio managers ongoing responsibility to frequently monitor developments affecting those invested assets, paying particular attention to events that might give rise to impairment write downs. Non Publicly Traded Investments The Companys investment portfolio includes non publicly traded investments, such as venture capital investments (as discussed above), private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships, and certain fixed income securities. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for joint ventures, limited partnerships and certain private equity securities. Certain other private equity investments, including venture capital investments are reported at estimated fair value. These non publicly traded securities are valued based on factors such as management judgment, recent financial information and other market data. 137 The following is a summary of the approximate carrying value of the Companys non publicly traded securities at December 31, 2006: (in millions) Carrying Value Investment partnerships, including hedge funds $ 2,077 Fixed income securities 208 Equity investments 176 Real estate partnerships and joint ventures 188 Venture capital 465 Total $ 3,114 Investment Impairments The Company recognizes an impairment loss when an invested assets value declines below cost, adjusted for accretion, amortization and previous other than temporary impairments (new cost basis), and the change is deemed to be other than temporary, or if it is determined that the Company will not be able to recover all amounts due pursuant to the issuers contractual obligations prior to sale or maturity. When the Company determines that an invested asset is other than temporarily impaired, the invested asset is written down to fair value and the amount of the impairment is included in earnings as a realized investment loss. The fair value then becomes the new cost basis of the investment and any subsequent recoveries in fair value are recognized at disposition. The Company recognizes a realized loss when impairment is deemed to be other than temporary even if a decision to sell an invested asset has not been made. When the Company has decided to sell a temporarily impaired available for sale invested asset and the Company does not expect the fair value of the invested asset to fully recover prior to the expected time of sale, the invested asset is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired in the period in which the decision to sell is made. Factors considered in determining whether a decline is other than temporary include the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, and the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. The Companys process for reviewing invested assets for impairments during any quarter includes the following: Identification and evaluation of investments that have possible indications of other than temporary impairment, which includes an analysis of investments with gross unrealized investment losses that have fair values less than 80% of cost for six consecutive months or more; Review of portfolio manager(s) recommendations for other than temporary impairments based on the investees current financial condition, liquidity, near term recovery prospects and other factors; Consideration of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or triggers that may cause individual investments to qualify as having other than temporary impairments; and Determination of the status of each analyzed investment as other than temporary or not, with documentation of the rationale for the decision. Sales of Temporarily Impaired Invested Assets The Company may, from time to time, sell invested assets subsequent to the balance sheet date that were considered temporarily impaired at the balance sheet date for several reasons. For all subsequent 138 sales of invested assets that were considered temporarily impaired at the balance sheet date, the Company contemporaneously documents its rationale for its change in intent or ability to hold to recovery. The rationale for the change in the Companys ability and intent generally focuses on changes in the economic facts and circumstances related to the invested asset subsequent to the balance sheet date, significant unforeseen changes in the Companys liquidity needs, or changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment. Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities An investment in a fixed maturity or equity security which is available for sale is impaired if its fair value falls below its cost or new cost basis and the decline is considered to be other than temporary. A fixed maturity security is other than temporarily impaired if it is probable that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due under the securitys contractual terms or where the Company does not have the intent to hold the security. Equity securities are other than temporarily impaired when it becomes apparent that the Company will not recover its cost over the expected holding period. Further, for securities expected to be sold, an other than temporary impairment charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security to recover prior to the expected date of sale. Additionally, for certain securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (including asset backed securities), the Company periodically updates its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security. If management determines that the fair value of a securitized financial asset is less than its carrying amount and there has been a decrease in the present value of the estimated cash flows since the last revised estimate, considering both timing and amount, then an other than temporary impairment is recognized. Real Estate Investments The carrying value of a real estate property is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The review for impairment includes an estimate of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the real estate property. An impairment loss is recognized if the expected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the real estate property. The impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Other Investments Mortgage Loans A mortgage loan is considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect principal and interest amounts due. For mortgage loans that are determined to be impaired, a reserve is established for the difference between the amortized cost and fair market value of the underlying collateral. In estimating fair value, the Company uses interest rates reflecting the current real estate financing market returns. Impaired loans were not material at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Venture Capital Investments and Non Publicly Traded Investments Venture capital investments and non publicly traded investments are reviewed quarterly for other than temporary impairment by the external fund manager and the Companys portfolio managers. An impairment loss is recognized if, based on the specific facts and circumstances, it is probable that the Company will not be able to recover all of the cost of an individual holding. For a further discussion, please see the venture capital investments and non publicly traded investments sections under the Valuation of Investments above. 139 Goodwill Impairments Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (FAS 142), provides guidance on accounting for goodwill subsequent to acquisition. Accordingly, the Company performs a review on at least an annual basis, of goodwill held by its reporting units, which are the Companys three operating and reportable segments: Business Insurance, Financial, Professional & International Insurance and Personal Insurance. In August 2006, the Company announced a realignment of two of its three reportable business segments. The former Commercial and Specialty segments were realigned into the Business Insurance segment and the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. The Personal segment was renamed Personal Insurance. Goodwill was reallocated among the reportable business segments to align the acquired business with the appropriate reporting segment. The impairment test, in accordance with FAS 142, is a two step process. The first step is to identify any potential impairment using a multiple of earnings approach to estimate the fair value of the reporting units. The fair values of the reporting units are then compared to their carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying amounts of the reporting units exceed their fair value, a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. The Companys review resulted in no impairment of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial condition, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Item 1A Risk Factors. FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may contain, and management may make, certain forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Specifically, the Company may make forward looking statements about the Companys results of operations (including, among others, premium volume, income from continuing operations, net and operating income and return on equity), financial condition and liquidity; the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among others, asbestos claim payment patterns); the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; and strategic initiatives. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates. The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements. 140 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2006. The Companys market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $72.27 billion and $68.29 billion, respectively, of which 87% and 86% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 6% of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk. The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 7 to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Managements Discussion and Analysis. The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.8% and 2.4% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. No other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 1.8% of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2006 or 2005. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. Near term means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. 141 Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2006 and 2005 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.3 billion and $2.2 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. As a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the Companys consolidated balance sheet, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the Companys exposure to foreign currencies. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $438 million and $374 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 142 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates. The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements. 140 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2006. The Companys market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $72.27 billion and $68.29 billion, respectively, of which 87% and 86% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 6% of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk. The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 7 to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Managements Discussion and Analysis. The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.8% and 2.4% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. No other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 1.8% of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2006 or 2005. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. Near term means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. 141 Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2006 and 2005 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.3 billion and $2.2 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. As a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the Companys consolidated balance sheet, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the Companys exposure to foreign currencies. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $438 million and $374 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 142 
 
