Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Also see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings." We are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. In addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. Establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. Moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, impede our ability to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures in medical costs and auto and home repair costs; judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; 51 increases in the number and size of claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims from directors and officers insurance relating to policyholders losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution or structuring, possible accounting irregularities, and corporate governance issues; the assertion of "public nuisance" theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs and or to abate hazards to public health and safety; and medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. We use reinsurance to help manage our exposure to property and casualty risks. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our business volume and profitability. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. In the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. Some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. This is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. The ability of reinsurers to transfer their risks to other, less creditworthy reinsurers impacts our risk of collecting amounts due to us. Accordingly, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive in the foreseeable future. We compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business now offer products for alternative forms of risk protection, including large deductible programs and various forms of self insurance that utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. Continued growth in alternative forms of risk protection could reduce our premium volume. Following the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 and again following the hurricane activity in 2005 and 2004, a number of new insurers and reinsurers were formed to compete in the industry, and a number of existing market participants raised new capital to enhance their ability to compete. The Company expects property casualty market conditions to continue to become more competitive in 2008, particularly for new business. See "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Outlook". 52 Our competitive position is based on many factors, including but not limited to: our ability to retain existing customers, to obtain new business and to profitably price our business; agent, broker and client relationships; speed of claims payment; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); our perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; local presence; and our ability to keep pace relative to competitors with changes in technology and information systems. We may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. If competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. See "Item 1 Business Competition." We are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations and in our investment portfolio. We are exposed to credit risk in several areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to reinsurance, as discussed above, as well as credit risk related to policyholders in certain lines of insurance and credit risk associated with independent agents and brokers. A portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. Under workers compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. We are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. Moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers compensation policies, i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period. Retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. In addition to workers compensation insurance, other lines of insurance also expose us to credit risk, such as surety insurance where we guarantee to a third party that our policyholder will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract). In accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. In most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. The value of our investment portfolio is also subject to the risk that certain investments may become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial position of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a downgrade of the credit ratings of an insurer that guarantees an issuers payments of such investments in our portfolio. In addition, defaults by the issuer and, where applicable, its guarantor, of certain investments that result in the failure of such parties to fulfill their obligations with regard to any of these investments could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. While we attempt to manage these risks through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic 53 downturn or recession. As a result, our exposure to any of the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The insurance industry and we are the subject of a number of investigations by state and federal authorities in the United States. We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or the impact on our business practices or financial results. As part of ongoing, industry wide investigations, we have received subpoenas and written requests for information from government agencies and authorities, including from the Attorneys General of numerous states, various states insurance and business regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The areas of pending inquiry addressed to us include our relationship with brokers and agents and our involvement with "non traditional" insurance and reinsurance products. We may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these or other areas from government agencies or authorities. We are cooperating with these subpoenas and requests for information. For further information, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings". It would be premature to reach any conclusions as to the likely outcome of these matters or the impact on our business or financial results. Potential outcomes could include enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in fines, penalties and or changes in business practices that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, these investigations may result in changes in laws and regulations affecting the industry in general which could, in turn, also materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by government regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. This regulatory system is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. This regulatory system also addresses authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non financial components of an insurers business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In addition, Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. We cannot predict the effect any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Although the United States federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation (e.g., the repeal of the McCarran Ferguson Act) and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. Insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and or higher costs and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A downgrade in our claims paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. Claims paying and financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurers competitive position. Rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and our current 54 ratings may not be maintained in the future. A downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes, because demand for certain of our products in certain markets may be reduced or our ratings could fall below minimum levels required to maintain existing business. Additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. If significant losses, such as those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. For example, a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather related catastrophes may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. The ratings are not in any way a measure of protection offered to investors in our securities and should not be relied upon with respect to making an investment in our securities. For further discussion about our ratings, see, "Item 1 Business Ratings". Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates or in the fixed income, real estate, equity or alternative investment markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in the general interest rate environment affect our returns on, and the market value of, our fixed income and short term investments, which comprised approximately 94% of the market value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2007. A decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments, thereby negatively impacting our net investment income. Conversely, rising interest rates reduces the market value of existing fixed income investments. In addition, defaults under, or impairments of, any of these investments as a result of financial problems with the issuer and, where applicable, its guarantor of the investment could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. We invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, venture capital investments, private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships, and trading securities, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non fixed income investments and the realization of net investment income. As a result of these factors, we may not realize an adequate return on our investments, we may incur losses on sales of our investments and we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. The value of our investment portfolio can be subject to valuation uncertainties when the investment markets are dislocated. The valuation of investments is more subjective when the markets are illiquid and may increase the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the investment portfolio is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur. Our investment portfolio is invested, in significant part, in tax exempt obligations. Our portfolio has also benefited from certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). Federal and or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio. This result could occur in the context of deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. Our holding company relies in part on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. 55  We are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the nature of and limitation on investments, the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders and shareholders, the nature and extent of required participation in insurance guaranty funds and the involuntary assumption of hard to place or high risk insurance business, primarily in workers compensation insurance lines. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. Disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. We market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. An important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. We rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll free numbers for distribution. In some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. Should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, the resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the United States. We conduct business outside the United States primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada and Ireland. We have also started to explore opportunities in other countries, including in emerging markets such as India and China. While our business outside of the United States currently constitutes a relatively small portion of our revenues, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. These risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, which could have an adverse affect on our business. In addition, some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. Failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. These activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control systems objectives will be met. If our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. Our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology; certain significant multiyear strategic information technology projects are currently in process but may not be successful. We depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and 56 on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. Some system development projects are long term in nature and may cost more than we expect to complete and may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete. If we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. If we experience difficulties with technology, data security and or outsourcing relationships our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. Our business is highly dependent upon our employees ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as Internet support and 24 hour call centers processing new and renewal business, and processing and paying claims. A shut down of, or inability to, access one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. We outsource certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. Our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. In addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the United States might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the United States. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On July 23, 2004, the Company announced that it was seeking guidance from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to the appropriate purchase accounting treatment for certain second quarter 2004 adjustments totaling $1.63 billion ($1.07 billion after tax). The Company recorded these adjustments as charges in its consolidated statement of income in the second quarter of 2004. Through an informal comment process, the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance subsequently asked for further information, which the Company provided. Specifically, the staff asked for information concerning the Companys adjustments to certain of SPCs insurance reserves and reserves for reinsurance recoverables and premiums due from policyholders, and how those adjustments may relate to SPCs reserves for periods prior to the merger of SPC and TPC. After reviewing the staffs questions and comments and discussions with the Companys independent auditors, the Company continues to believe that its accounting treatment for these adjustments is appropriate. If, however, the staff disagrees, some or all of the adjustments being discussed may not be recorded as 57 charges in the Companys consolidated statement of income, thereby increasing net income for the second quarter and full year 2004 and increasing shareholders equity at December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, in each case by the approximate after tax amount of the change. The effect on tangible shareholders equity (adjusted for the effects of deferred taxes associated with goodwill and other intangible assets) at December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 would not be material. Increases to goodwill and deferred tax liabilities would be reflected on the Companys balance sheet as of April 1, 2004, either due to purchase accounting or adjustment of SPCs reserves prior to the merger of SPC and TPC. On May 3, 2006, the Company received a letter from the Division of Enforcement of the SEC (the Division) advising the Company that it is conducting an inquiry relating to the second quarter 2004 adjustments and the April 1, 2004 merger between SPC and TPC. The Company is cooperating with the Divisions requests for information. Item 2. PROPERTIES The Company owns its corporate headquarters buildings located at 385 Washington Street and 130 West Sixth Street, St. Paul, Minnesota. These buildings are adjacent to one another and consist of approximately 1.1 million square feet of gross floor space. The Company also owns six buildings in Hartford, Connecticut. The Company currently occupies approximately 1.8 million square feet of office space in these buildings. The Company also owns other real property, which includes office buildings in Denver, Colorado; Fall River, Massachusetts; and a data center located in Norcross, Georgia. In January 2007, the Company acquired a building and adjacent land in Windsor, Connecticut and in June 2007 sold an office building which it owned in Irving, Texas. The Company leases 197 field and claim offices totaling approximately 5.2 million square feet throughout the United States under leases or subleases with third parties. The Company owns a building in London, England, which houses a portion of its operations in the United Kingdom. The Company, through its subsidiaries, owns an investment portfolio of income producing properties and real estate funds. Included in this portfolio are four office buildings in which the Company holds a 50% ownership interest located in New York, New York, which collectively accounted for approximately 10% of the carrying value of the property portfolio at December 31, 2007. In the opinion of the Companys management, the Companys properties are adequate and suitable for its business as presently conducted and are adequately maintained. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS This section describes the major pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the Companys property is subject. Asbestos and Environmental Related Proceedings In the ordinary course of its insurance business, the Company receives claims for insurance arising under policies issued by the Company asserting alleged injuries and damages from asbestos and environmental related exposures that are the subject of related coverage litigation, including, among others, the litigation described below. The Company continues to be subject to aggressive asbestos related litigation. The conditions surrounding the final resolution of these claims and the related litigation continue to change. The Company is defending its asbestos and environmental related litigation vigorously and believes that it has meritorious defenses; however, the outcomes of these disputes are uncertain. In this regard, the Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive resolution strategies to manage asbestos and environmental loss exposure, including settling litigation 58 under appropriate circumstances. For a discussion of other information regarding the Companys asbestos and environmental exposure, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation," " Environmental Claims and Litigation" and " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is involved in three significant proceedings relating to ACandS, Inc. (ACandS), formerly a national distributor and installer of products containing asbestos. The proceedings, which are pending in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (In re: ACandS, Inc.) and the U.S. District Court for the District of Pennsylvania (ACandS, Inc. v. Travelers Casualty and Surety Co., No. 03 MC 222 and ACandS, Inc. v. Travelers Casualty and Surety Co., 00 CV 4633), involve disputes as to whether and to what extent any of ACandS potential liabilities for current or future bodily injury asbestos claims are covered by insurance policies issued by TPC. On July 6, 2007, the Company announced that it entered into a settlement to resolve fully all current and future asbestos related coverage claims relating to ACandS, including the three proceedings mentioned above. Under the settlement agreement, the Company will contribute $449 million to a trust to be established pursuant to ACandS plan of reorganization. In exchange, the Company will be released from any obligations it has to ACandS for asbestos related claims and will be protected from any such claims by injunctions to be issued in the Companys favor by the federal court overseeing ACandS bankruptcy case. The settlement is subject to a number of contingencies. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, ACandS and the Company have agreed to stay the claims against each other in the three proceedings described above. Once all of the contingencies of the settlement are satisfied, these claims will be dismissed with prejudice. On August 27, 2007, the bankruptcy court overseeing ACandS bankruptcy approved the settlement and no appeals from that approval were taken. As a result, the Company has placed $449 million into escrow. Upon fulfillment of all contingencies, including final court approval of a plan of reorganization for ACandS and the issuance of the injunctions described above, those funds will be released from escrow to the trust created under ACandS plan of reorganization. The release of the funds to the trust will be recorded as a paid claim and reduction in claim reserves, and accordingly, there will be no effect on the Companys results of operations. The Company expects to seek to recover approximately $84 million of the $449 million from reinsurers. In October 2001 and April 2002, two purported class action suits (Wise v. Travelers and Meninger v. Travelers) were filed against TPC and other insurers (not including SPC) in state court in West Virginia. These cases were subsequently consolidated into a single proceeding in the Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia. The plaintiffs allege that the insurer defendants engaged in unfair trade practices by inappropriately handling and settling asbestos claims. The plaintiffs seek to reopen large numbers of settled asbestos claims and to impose liability for damages, including punitive damages, directly on insurers. Similar lawsuits were filed in West Virginia, Massachusetts and Hawaii state courts (these suits are collectively referred to as the Statutory and Hawaii Actions). In March 2002, the plaintiffs in consolidated asbestos actions pending before a mass tort panel of judges in West Virginia state court amended their complaint to include TPC as a defendant, alleging that TPC and other insurers breached alleged duties to certain users of asbestos products. The plaintiffs seek damages, including punitive damages. Lawsuits seeking similar relief and raising similar allegations, primarily violations of purported common law duties to third parties, are also pending in Texas state court against TPC and SPC, and in Louisiana state court against TPC (the claims asserted in these suits, together with the West Virginia suit, are collectively referred to as the Common Law Claims). The federal bankruptcy court that had presided over the bankruptcy of TPCs former policyholder Johns Manville Corporation issued a temporary injunction prohibiting the prosecution of the Statutory 59 Actions (but not the Hawaii Actions), the Common Law Claims and an additional set of cases filed in various state courts in Texas and Ohio, and enjoining certain attorneys from filing any further lawsuits against TPC based on similar allegations. Notwithstanding the injunction, additional common law claims were filed against TPC. In November 2003, the parties reached a settlement of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions. This settlement includes a lump sum payment of up to $412 million by TPC, subject to a number of significant contingencies. In May 2004, the parties reached a settlement resolving substantially all pending and similar future Common Law Claims against TPC. This settlement requires a payment of up to $90 million by TPC, subject to a number of significant contingencies. Each of these settlements is contingent upon, among other things, an order of the bankruptcy court clarifying that all of these claims, and similar future asbestos related claims against TPC, are barred by prior orders entered by the bankruptcy court. On August 17, 2004, the bankruptcy court entered an order approving the settlements and clarifying its prior orders that all of the pending Statutory and Hawaii Actions and substantially all Common Law Claims pending against TPC are barred. The order also applies to similar direct action claims that may be filed in the future. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders that required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts March 29, 2006 ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating on jurisdictional grounds the District Courts approval of an order issued by the bankruptcy court prohibiting the prosecution of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims, as well as future similar direct action litigation, against TPC. Final approval of the order was a predicate to TPCs financial obligations under the settlement agreements. One or more of the parties may seek further appellate review of the Second Circuits opinion, and the Company is evaluating its appellate options. Unless the Second Circuits decision is reversed on further appeal and the bankruptcy courts order is reinstated and becomes final, the settlements will be voided, TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts due under the settlement agreements (other than certain administrative expenses) and the Company intends to litigate the direct action cases vigorously. SPC, which is not covered by the bankruptcy court rulings or the settlements described above, has numerous defenses in the direct action cases asserting common law claims that are pending against it. There have been favorable rulings during 2003 and 2004 in Texas and during 2004 and 2005 in Ohio on motions to dismiss filed by SPC and other insurers that dealt with statute of limitations and the validity of the alleged causes of actions. On May 26, 2005, the Court of Appeals of Ohio, Eighth District, affirmed the earliest of these favorable rulings. In Texas, only one court, in June of 2005, has denied the insurers initial challenges to the pleadings. That ruling was contrary to the rulings by other courts in similar cases, and SPC and the other insurer defendants have filed a petition with the Texas Court of Appeals seeking relief from that ruling. Currently, it is not possible to predict legal outcomes and their impact on the future development of claims and litigation relating to asbestos and environmental claims. Any such development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. Because of these uncertainties, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of ultimate claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys results of operations in future periods. 60 Shareholder Litigation and Related Proceedings In November 2004, two purported class actions were brought in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota by certain shareholders of the Company against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors. These two actions were consolidated as In re St. Paul Travelers Securities Litigation II. An amended consolidated complaint was filed alleging violations of federal securities laws in connection with (i) the Companys alleged failure to make disclosure relating to the practice of paying brokers commissions on a contingent basis, (ii) the Companys alleged involvement in a conspiracy to rig bids and (iii) the Companys allegedly improper use of finite reinsurance products. On January 17, 2008, the parties in In re St. Paul Travelers Securities Litigation II entered into a stipulation of settlement resolving the case. The settlement is subject to court approval. The settlement will not have a material impact on the Companys results of operations. Other Proceedings From time to time, the Company is involved in proceedings addressing disputes with its reinsurers regarding the collection of amounts due under the Companys reinsurance agreements. These proceedings may be initiated by the Company or the reinsurers and may involve the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the coverage of particular claims, exclusions under the agreements, as well as counterclaims for rescission of the agreements. One of these disputes is the action described in the following paragraphs. The Companys Gulf operation brought an action on May 22, 2003 in the Supreme Court of New York, County of New York (Gulf Insurance Company v. Transatlantic Reinsurance Company, et al.), against Transatlantic Reinsurance Company (Transatlantic), XL Reinsurance America, Inc. (XL), Odyssey America Reinsurance Corporation (Odyssey), Employers Reinsurance Company (Employers) and Gerling Global Reinsurance Corporation of America (Gerling), to recover amounts due under reinsurance contracts issued to Gulf and related to Gulfs February 2003 settlement of a coverage dispute under a vehicle residual value protection insurance policy. The reinsurers asserted counterclaims seeking rescission of the vehicle residual value reinsurance contracts issued to Gulf and unspecified damages for breach of contract. Gerling commenced a separate action asserting the same claims, which has been consolidated with the original Gulf action for pre trial purposes. Gulf has entered into final settlement agreements with Employers, XL, Transatlantic and Odyssey which resolve all claims between Gulf and these defendants under the reinsurance agreements at issue in the litigation. In November 2007, the court issued rulings denying Gulfs motion for partial summary judgment against Gerling, the sole remaining defendant, but granting Gerlings motion for partial summary judgment on certain claims and counterclaims asserted by Gulf and Gerling. Gulf has appealed the courts decision to the Supreme Court of New York Appellate Division, First Department, and has been granted a stay of trial on the remaining claims pending that appeal. Gulf denies Gerlings allegations, believes that it has a strong legal basis to collect the amounts due under the reinsurance contracts and intends to vigorously pursue the action. Based on the Companys beliefs about its legal positions in its various reinsurance recovery proceedings, the Company does not expect any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations in a future period. The Company is a defendant in three consolidated lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana arising out of disputes with certain policyholders over whether insurance coverage is available for flood losses arising from Hurricane Katrina: Chehardy, et al. v. State Farm, et al., Vanderbrook, et al. v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., et al., and Xavier University of Louisiana v. Travelers Property Ca. Co. of America. Chehardy and Vanderbrook are purported class actions in which the 61 Company is one of several insurer defendants. Xavier is an individual suit involving a property insurance policy brought by one of the Companys insureds. All of these actions allege that the losses were caused by the failure of the New Orleans levees. On November 27, 2006, the district court issued a ruling in the three consolidated cases denying the motions of the Company and certain other insurers for a summary disposition of the cases. On August 2, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed the district courts ruling, holding that there is no coverage for the plaintiffs flood losses under the policies at issue (including policies issued by the Company) because the policies flood exclusions unambiguously exclude coverage. On August 27, 2007, the Fifth Circuit denied the plaintiffs petition for rehearing. The plaintiffs filed a Petition for Writ of Certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court, which was denied on February 19, 2008. The district court to which these cases were remanded following the Fifth Circuit decision discussed above has issued an order staying all proceedings concerning the interpretation of the flood exclusion until a decision is rendered in an appeal pending in the Louisiana Supreme Court entitled Joseph Sher v. Lafayette Insurance Co., et al.Sher is an appeal from a decision of a Louisiana state appellate court in which, contrary to the Fifth Circuits ruling discussed above, certain judges on the panel ruled that the flood exclusion at issue in the case is ambiguous. Although the Company is not a party to Sher, the district court issued the stay on the basis that the Louisiana Supreme Courts decision in Sher may be relevant to the outcome of the district court cases. Oral argument in Sher is scheduled for February 26, 2008. As previously disclosed, as part of ongoing, industry wide investigations, the Company and its affiliates have received subpoenas and written requests for information from a number of government agencies and authorities, including, among others, state attorneys general, state insurance departments, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The areas of pending inquiry addressed to the Company include its relationship with brokers and agents and the Companys involvement with "non traditional insurance and reinsurance products." The Company and its affiliates may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these matters. The Company is cooperating with these subpoenas and requests for information. In addition, outside counsel, with the oversight of the Companys board of directors, conducted an internal review of certain of the Companys business practices. This review initially focused on the Companys relationship with brokers and was commenced after the announcement of litigation brought by the New York Attorney Generals office against a major broker. The internal review was expanded to address the various requests for information described above and to verify whether the Companys business practices in these areas have been appropriate. The Companys review has been extensive, involving the examination of e mails and underwriting files, as well as interviews of current and former employees. In its review, the Company found only a few instances of conduct that were inconsistent with the Companys employee code of conduct and has responded appropriately. The Companys internal review with respect to finite reinsurance considered finite products the Company both purchased and sold. The Company has completed its review with respect to the identified finite products purchased and sold, and has concluded that no adjustment to previously issued financial statements is required. Any authority with open inquiries or investigations could ask that additional work be performed or reach conclusions different from the Companys. Accordingly, it would be premature to reach any conclusions as to the likely outcome of the regulatory inquiries described above. In 2005, four putative class action lawsuits were brought against a number of insurance brokers and insurers, including the Company and or certain of its affiliates, by plaintiffs who allegedly 62 purchased insurance products through one or more of the defendant brokers. The plaintiffs alleged that various insurance brokers conspired with each other and with various insurers, including the Company and or certain of its affiliates, to artificially inflate premiums, allocate brokerage customers and rig bids for insurance products offered to those customers. To the extent they were not originally filed there, the federal class actions were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey and were consolidated for pre trial proceedings with other class actions under the caption In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation. On August 1, 2005, various plaintiffs, including the four named plaintiffs in the above referenced class actions, filed an amended consolidated class action complaint naming various brokers and insurers, including the Company and certain of its affiliates, on behalf of a putative nationwide class of policyholders. The complaint included causes of action under the Sherman Act, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), state common law and the laws of the various states prohibiting antitrust violations. The complaint sought monetary damages, including punitive damages and trebled damages, permanent injunctive relief, restitution, including disgorgement of profits, interest and costs, including attorneys fees. All defendants moved to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. After giving plaintiffs multiple opportunities to replead, the court dismissed the Sherman Act claims on August 31, 2007 and the RICO claims on September 28, 2007, both with prejudice, and declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over the state law claims. The plaintiffs are appealing the district courts decisions to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Additional individual actions have been brought in state and federal courts against the Company involving allegations similar to those in In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation, and further actions may be brought. The Company believes that all of these lawsuits have no merit and intends to defend vigorously. In addition to those described above, the Company is involved in numerous lawsuits, not involving asbestos and environmental claims, arising mostly in the ordinary course of business operations either as a liability insurer defending third party claims brought against policyholders, or as an insurer defending claims brought against it relating to coverage or the Companys business practices. While the ultimate resolution of these legal proceedings could be material to the Companys results of operations in a future period, in the opinion of the Companys management, none would likely have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position or liquidity. The Company previously reported that it sought guidance from the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to the appropriate purchase accounting treatment for certain second quarter 2004 adjustments totaling $1.63 billion. See "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Other Uncertainties." After discussion with the staff of the Division of Corporate Finance and the Companys independent auditors, the Company continues to believe that its accounting treatment for these adjustments is appropriate. On May 3, 2006, the Company received a letter from the Division of Enforcement of the SEC advising the Company that it is conducting an inquiry relating to the second quarter 2004 adjustments and the April 1, 2004 merger of SPC and TPC. The Company is cooperating with the requests for information. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS NONE. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information about the Companys executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Report. 63   PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Companys common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "TRV." The number of holders of record, including individual owners, of the Companys common stock was 83,966 as of February 15, 2008. This is not the actual number of beneficial owners of the Companys common stock, as shares are held in "street name" by brokers and others on behalf of individual owners. The following table sets forth the amount of cash dividends declared per share and the high and low closing sales prices of the Companys common stock for each quarter during the last two fiscal years. High Low Cash Dividend Declared 2007 First Quarter $ 53.74 $ 49.59 $ 0.26 Second Quarter 56.76 51.85 0.29 Third Quarter 55.01 48.38 0.29 Fourth Quarter 55.18 50.05 0.29 2006 First Quarter $ 47.65 $ 40.75 $ 0.23 Second Quarter 45.86 41.02 0.26 Third Quarter 47.39 42.62 0.26 Fourth Quarter 54.23 46.43 0.26 The Company paid cash dividends per share of $1.13 in 2007 and $1.01 in 2006. Future dividend decisions will be based on and affected by a number of factors, including the operating results and financial requirements of the Company and the impact of dividend restrictions. For information on dividends, as well as restrictions on the ability of certain of the Companys subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Company in the form of cash dividends or otherwise, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." Dividends will be paid by the Company only if declared by its Board of Directors out of funds legally available, and subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. 64 SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph shows a five year comparison of the cumulative total return for the Companys common stock and the common stock of companies included in the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Property & Casualty Index, which the Company believes is the most appropriate comparative index. (1)Assumes $100 invested in common shares of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. on December 31, 2002. The performance reflected is that of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. only until the date of the merger (April 1, 2004), and is that of The Travelers Companies, Inc. thereafter. (2)Companies in the S&P Property Casualty Index as of December 31, 2007 were the following: The Travelers Companies, Inc., ACE Ltd., AMBAC Financial Group, Inc., Safeco Corporation, The Chubb Corporation, Cincinnati Financial Corporation, Progressive Corporation, Allstate Corporation, MBIA, Inc. and XL Capital, Ltd. Returns of each of the companies included in this index have been weighted according to their respective market capitalizations. 65  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The table below sets forth information regarding repurchases by the Company of its common stock during the periods indicated. Period Beginning Period Ending Total number of shares purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Maximum dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs Oct. 1, 2007 Oct. 31, 2007 3,401,195 $ 52.92 3,283,940 $ 1,758,356,131 Nov. 1, 2007 Nov. 30, 2007 9,790,857 51.79 9,709,073 1,255,522,761 Dec. 1, 2007 Dec. 31, 2007 6,043,294 53.76 6,015,200 932,186,671 Total 19,235,346 $ 52.61 19,008,213 $ 932,186,671 The Company repurchased 227,133 shares during this three month period that were not part of the publicly announced share repurchase authorization, representing shares repurchased to cover payroll withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options, and shares used to cover the exercise price of certain stock options that were exercised. The Companys share repurchase authorization, which has no expiration date, was first approved and announced by the Companys board of directors in May 2006. The original authorized repurchase capacity was $2 billion; in January 2007, the board of directors authorized an additional $3 billion of repurchase capacity. Through December 31, 2007, the Company had repurchased a cumulative total of 78.8 million shares for a total cost of $4.07 billion, and had $932 million of remaining capacity at December 31, 2007 under the authorization. In January 2008, the board of directors authorized an additional $5 billion for share repurchases. 66  Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA All data in the following table for 2003 represent historical data for TPC. For accounting purposes, the merger of SPC and TPC was accounted for as a reverse acquisition with TPC treated as the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, this transaction was accounted for as a purchase business combination, using TPCs historical financial information and applying fair value estimates to the acquired assets, liabilities and commitments of SPC as of April 1, 2004. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in the future. At and for the year ended December 31,(1) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in millions, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 26,017 $ 25,090 $ 24,365 $ 22,544 $ 15,139 Income from continuing operations $ 4,601 $ 4,208 $ 2,061 $ 867 $ 1,696 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (439 ) 88 Net income $ 4,601 $ 4,208 $ 1,622 $ 955 $ 1,696 Total investments $ 74,818 $ 72,268 $ 68,287 $ 64,368 $ 38,653 Total assets 115,224 115,292 113,736 111,246 64,872 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves 57,700 59,288 61,090 59,070 34,573 Total debt 6,242 5,760 5,850 6,313 2,675 Total liabilities 88,608 90,157 91,433 90,045 52,885 Total shareholders equity 26,616 25,135 22,303 21,201 11,987 Basic earnings per share:(2) Income from continuing operations $ 7.04 $ 6.12 $ 3.04 $ 1.42 $ 3.91 Income (loss) from discontinued operations(3) (0.65 ) 0.14 Net income $ 7.04 $ 6.12 $ 2.39 $ 1.56 $ 3.91 Diluted earnings per share:(2) Income from continuing operations $ 6.86 $ 5.91 $ 2.95 $ 1.40 $ 3.80 Income (loss) from discontinued operations(3) (0.62 ) 0.13 Net income $ 6.86 $ 5.91 $ 2.33 $ 1.53 $ 3.80 Year end common shares outstanding(2) 627.8 678.3 693.4 670.3 435.8 Per common share data: Cash dividends(2) $ 1.13 $ 1.01 $ 0.91 $ 1.16 $ 0.65 Book value(2) $ 42.22 $ 36.86 $ 31.94 $ 31.35 $ 27.51 (1)On April 1, 2004, TPC merged with SPC, as a result of which TPC became a wholly owned subsidiary of SPC, and SPC changed its name to The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. On February 26, 2007, the name of the Company was changed to The Travelers Companies, Inc. All financial information presented herein for the year ended December 31, 2004 reflects the accounts of TPC for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and the consolidated accounts of SPC and TPC for the nine months ended December 31, 2004. (2)Earnings per share, year end common shares outstanding, cash dividends per share and book value per share were restated for 2003 to reflect the impact of the merger with SPC. (3)In August 2005, the Company completed its divestiture of Nuveen Investments, Inc., its asset management subsidiary acquired in the merger. Accordingly, the Companys share of Nuveen Investments results prior to the divestiture was classified as discontinued operations, along with the net after tax loss on disposal. Prior period results were reclassified to be consistent with the 2005 presentation. 67  Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company). 2007 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2007 Consolidated Results of Operations Income from continuing operations and net income of $4.60 billion, or $7.04 per share basic and $6.86 diluted Net favorable prior year reserve development of $546 million pretax ($351 million after tax) Net earned premiums of $21.47 billion GAAP combined ratio of 87.4% Pretax net investment income of $3.76 billion ($2.92 billion after tax) Pretax net realized investment gains of $154 million ($101 million after tax) 2007 Consolidated Financial Condition Total assets of $115.22 billion Total investments of $74.82 billion, up $2.55 billion from December 31, 2006; fixed maturities and short term securities comprise 94% of total investments Total debt of $6.24 billion, resulting in a debt to total capital ratio of 19.4% Repurchased 56.0 million common shares for total cost of $2.95 billion under share repurchase authorization Shareholders equity of $26.62 billion, up $1.48 billion from December 31, 2006; book value per common share of $42.22, up 15% from December 31, 2006 Holding company liquidity of $1.62 billion CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW The Company provides a wide range of property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals, primarily in the United States and in selected international markets. 68 Consolidated Results of Operations For the year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues Premiums $ 21,470 $ 20,760 $ 20,341 Net investment income 3,761 3,517 3,165 Fee income 508 591 664 Net realized investment gains 154 11 17 Other revenues 124 211 178 Total revenues 26,017 25,090 24,365 Claims and expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses 12,397 12,244 14,927 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 3,706 3,339 3,252 General and administrative expenses 3,352 3,458 3,229 Interest expense 346 324 286 Total claims and expenses 19,801 19,365 21,694 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 6,216 5,725 2,671 Income tax expense 1,615 1,517 610 Income from continuing operations 4,601 4,208 2,061 Discontinued operations: Operating loss, net of taxes (663 ) Gain on disposal, net of taxes 224 Loss from discontinued operations (439 ) Net income $ 4,601 $ 4,208 $ 1,622 Income from continuing operations per share Basic $ 7.04 $ 6.12 $ 3.04 Diluted $ 6.86 $ 5.91 $ 2.95 GAAP combined ratio Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 56.6 % 57.5 % 71.9 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.8 30.6 29.4 GAAP combined ratio 87.4 % 88.1 % 101.3 % The Companys discussions of income from continuing operations, loss from discontinued operations, net income and segment operating income included in the following discussion are presented on an after tax basis. Discussions of the components of net income and segment operating income are presented on a pretax basis, unless otherwise noted. Discussions of earnings per common share are presented on a diluted basis. Overview Income from continuing operations of $6.86 per common share in 2007 was 16% higher than the $5.91 per common share in 2006. Income from continuing operations in 2007 totaled $4.60 billion, 9% higher than $4.21 billion in 2006. The higher rate of growth in per share income compared with the rate of growth in actual income in 2007 over 2006 reflected the impact of the Companys significant common share repurchases since its repurchase program began in the second quarter of 2006. The increase in income from continuing operations in 2007 reflected growth in net investment income, a higher level of net favorable prior year reserve development, an increase in net realized investment 69 gains, favorable current accident year results and increased business volume, partially offset by an increase in expenses and a decline in fee income. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $546 million in 2007, compared with net favorable prior year reserve development of $394 million in 2006. Expenses in 2007 included a net benefit of $163 million due to the implementation of a new fixed, value based compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents, which resulted in a reduction in commission expense compared to what would have otherwise been reported, due to a change in the timing of expense recognition compared with 2006. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $167 million, compared with $103 million in 2006. Income from continuing operations in both 2007 and 2006 included after tax benefits of $86 million due to the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. The 2007 total also included net realized investment gains of $154 million, compared with net realized investment gains of $11 million in 2006. Income from continuing operations in 2006 totaled $4.21 billion, or $5.91 per share, compared with 2005 income from continuing operations of $2.06 billion, or $2.95 per share. The $2.15 billion increase in 2006 operating results reflected a significant decline in catastrophe losses, net favorable prior year reserve development, strong growth in net investment income and higher business volume. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income. Catastrophe losses in 2006 totaled $103 million, whereas results in 2005 included $2.19 billion of catastrophe costs, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $394 million in 2006, compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $325 million in 2005. In 2005, the Company sold its equity interest in Nuveen Investments, which constituted its Asset Management segment. The Company recorded a net loss from discontinued operations of $439 million, consisting primarily of $710 million of tax expense which resulted from the difference between the tax basis and the GAAP carrying value of the Companys investment in Nuveen Investments, partially offset by the $224 million after tax gain on the divestiture and the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income for 2005. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2007 totaled $21.47 billion, an increase of $710 million, or 3%, over 2006. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 4% in 2007 over 2006 primarily reflected the impact of the growth in business volume over the preceding twelve months. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 2% in 2007 over 2006 was driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange, growth in business volume and a benefit from adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds, partially offset by the impact of the sale of the Companys Mexican surety subsidiary, Afianzadora Insurgentes, S.A. de C.V. (Afianzadora Insurgentes), in late March 2007. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 4% in 2007 over 2006 reflected continued strong business retention rates, continued renewal price increases and growth from new business volumes over the preceding twelve months, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota Insurance Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, Mendota) in early April 2007. Earned premiums in 2006 totaled $20.76 billion, an increase of $419 million, or 2%, over the 2005 total of $20.34 billion. Earned premiums in 2006 were negatively impacted by an increase in property catastrophe reinsurance costs. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $121 million of reinstatement premiums, which represent additional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that had been exhausted as a result of reinsured losses under certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2006 declined 2% from the comparable 2005 total, primarily reflecting the impact of business in 70 runoff and the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. Earned premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment in 2006 increased 4% over 2005, primarily reflecting growth in Bond & Financial Products and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 9% in 2006 reflected strong new business volume and continued renewal price increases. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys investments. (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Average investments(a) $ 73,872 $ 71,252 $ 66,695 Pretax net investment income 3,761 3,517 3,165 After tax net investment income 2,915 2,712 2,438 Average pretax yield(b) 5.1 % 4.9 % 4.7 % Average after tax yield(b) 3.9 % 3.8 % 3.7 % (a)Excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of tax, and is adjusted for cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income. (b)Excludes net realized gains and losses and unrealized investment gains and losses. Net investment income totaled $3.76 billion in 2007, an increase of $244 million, or 7%, over 2006 net investment income of $3.52 billion. The increase in 2007 was primarily the result of continued growth in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio resulting from strong cash flows from operating activities and higher yields on long term taxable fixed maturity securities. Also contributing to investment income growth in 2007 were strong levels of net investment income from the Companys real estate joint venture investments. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2007 totaled $64.15 billion, $1.91 billion higher than year end 2006. The average pretax investment yield was 5.1% in 2007, compared with 4.9% in 2006. The increase primarily reflected strong returns generated by the real estate joint venture investments and higher yields on taxable investments purchased in 2007. Net investment income totaled $3.52 billion in 2006, an increase of $352 million, or 11%, over 2005 net investment income of $3.17 billion. The increase in 2006 was primarily the result of higher yields on short term and long term taxable securities, continued growth in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio resulting from strong cash flows from operating activities and a decline in investment expenses. Also contributing to investment income growth in 2006 was the full year impact of investment returns from the investment of $2.40 billion in proceeds from the divestiture of the Companys equity interest in Nuveen Investments during 2005. The Companys real estate joint venture investments also produced strong levels of net investment income in 2006. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2006 totaled $62.24 billion, $3.63 billion higher than year end 2005. The average pretax investment yield was 4.9% in 2006 compared with 4.7% in 2005. The increase in yield primarily reflected higher yields on taxable investments purchased in 2006 and the strong returns generated by the real estate joint venture investments. The Company allocates invested assets and the related net investment income to its reportable business segments. Pretax net investment income is allocated based upon an investable funds concept, which takes into account liabilities (net of non invested assets) and appropriate capital considerations for each segment. For investable funds, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the estimated duration of the loss reserves future cash flows, the interest rate environment at the time the losses were incurred and A+ rated corporate debt instrument yields. For capital, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the average yield on the total investment portfolio. The 71 benchmark investment yields are applied to each segments investable funds and capital, respectively, to produce a total notional investment income by segment. The Companys actual net investment income is allocated to each segment in proportion to the respective segments notional investment income to total notional investment income. Fee Income The National Accounts market in the Business Insurance segment is the primary source of the Companys fee based business. The declines in fee income in 2007 and 2006 compared with the respective prior years is described in the Business Insurance segment discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains Net realized investment gains in 2007 totaled $154 million, compared with net realized investment gains of $11 million in 2006. The 2007 total included $91 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $16 million) generated by the venture capital portfolio (including an $81 million net realized investment gain from the bundled sale of a substantial portion of the Companys venture capital investment holdings), $63 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of a privately held security, $21 million of net realized investment gains related to the Companys holdings of stock purchase warrants of Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., a publicly held company, and $5 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $37 million) from the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These gains were partially offset by a net realized loss of $24 million related to the divestiture of a subsidiary. Net realized investment gains in 2006 totaled $11 million, compared with net realized investment gains of $17 million in 2005. The 2006 total included $49 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $33 million) generated by the venture capital portfolio and $30 million of net realized investment gains related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts (which require a daily mark to market settlement and are used to shorten the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio). These gains were substantially offset by $33 million of net realized investment losses from the fixed maturity portfolio (including $7 million of impairment losses) and $22 million of net realized investment losses related to the Companys holdings of stock purchase warrants of Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd. In addition, the Company incurred net realized losses of $11 million related to the divestiture of two small subsidiaries. Net realized investment gains in 2005 were primarily generated from sales of venture capital investments and equity securities. In addition, the Company realized a gain of $21 million from the sale of its Personal Catastrophe Risk operation and $13 million of net gains related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts. Net realized investment gains in 2005 were reduced by $109 million of impairment losses, which were concentrated in the venture capital portfolio as described in more detail later in this discussion. Further information regarding the nature of impairment charges in each year is included in the "Investment Portfolio" section later in this discussion. Other Revenues Other revenues in all periods presented primarily consist of premium installment charges. In 2007, other revenues also reflected a $39 million loss related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. Other revenues in 2006 included a $42 million gain on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.60% subordinated debentures. 72  Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Business Insurance $ 13,017 $ 13,047 $ 13,453 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 4,037 3,981 3,809 Personal Insurance 7,144 7,011 6,474 Total $ 24,198 $ 24,039 $ 23,736 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Business Insurance $ 11,318 $ 11,046 $ 10,999 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,465 3,393 3,159 Personal Insurance 6,835 6,711 6,228 Total $ 21,618 $ 21,150 $ 20,386 Gross and net written premiums in 2007 increased 1% and 2%, respectively, over 2006. In early 2007, the Company completed the sales of Afianzadora Insurgentes and Mendota. These operations generated combined net written premiums of $74 million in 2007 prior to their sale, compared with combined net written premiums of $265 million in 2006. Adjusting for the impact of that premium volume in both years, the Companys consolidated net written premiums in 2007 increased 3% over 2006. Net written premiums in 2007 in each of the Companys business segments increased 2% over the respective 2006 total. In Business Insurance, growth was concentrated in the Commercial Accounts, Select Accounts and Industry Focused Underwriting markets, primarily driven by strong business retention rates coupled with higher new business volume. In addition, a decline in premiums ceded for catastrophe reinsurance contributed to net written premium growth over 2006 in Business Insurance. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, the increase reflected the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange, strong business volume in construction surety, in Canada and at Lloyds, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes. Adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds also contributed to the growth in net premium volume in 2007. Net written premium growth in the Personal Insurance segment in 2007 was driven by continued strong retention rates and renewal price increases, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota and a decline in new business volume, particularly for coastal coverages. Gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 1% and 4%, respectively, over 2005. The disparity between gross and net written premium growth rates in 2006 was concentrated in the Business Insurance segment and was primarily due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage in the Companys Discover Re subsidiary that resulted in a decline in ceded premiums. Net written premium volume in 2006 was negatively impacted by a higher level of premiums ceded for the cost of property catastrophe reinsurance, whereas net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by $121 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In Business Insurance, net written premium growth in 2006 was driven by strong increases in Target Risk Underwriting, due to significant renewal price increases for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures, and in Industry Focused Underwriting, due to growth in several industry sectors served by this market. That growth was largely offset by a reduction in premium volume for operations in runoff primarily due to the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in the fourth quarter of 2005. Business retention rates remained strong throughout the Business Insurance segment in 2006, and 73 new business volume increased. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, written premium growth in 2006 reflected strong business volume throughout the segment, and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. Net written premium growth in the Personal Insurance segment in 2006 reflected growth in new business volume, renewal price increases and continued strong business retention rates, partially offset by the estimated impact of transitioning to six month policy terms in the second half of the year for a large portion of the Companys multivariate pricing Automobile product, and an increase in ceded premiums for catastrophe reinsurance. Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.40 billion in 2007, $153 million, or 1%, higher than the 2006 total of $12.24 billion. The 2007 total included $546 million of net favorable prior year reserve development and $167 million of catastrophe losses, whereas the 2006 total included $394 million of net favorable prior year reserve development and $103 million of catastrophe losses. The Companys three business segments each experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007. In Business Insurance, net favorable prior year reserve development was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. Net total prior year reserve development in 2007 in the Business Insurance segment included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 primarily reflected better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 occurred in both the Automobile and Homeowners and Other lines of business. Factors contributing to net favorable prior year reserve development in each segment are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was concentrated in the Personal Insurance segment, primarily reflecting better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. The Business Insurance segment also experienced net favorable prior year loss experience in its ongoing operations in 2006, primarily in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business. The favorable development in 2006 was partially offset by increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, which are discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein. There was also unfavorable prior year reserve development in runoff assumed reinsurance business in 2006. Catastrophe losses of $167 million in 2007 primarily resulted from wildfires in California and several wind, rain and hail storms throughout the United States. In 2006, catastrophe losses totaled $103 million, all of which was incurred in the Personal Insurance segment and resulted from several wind, rain, hail and snow storms in the United States throughout the year. Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.24 billion in 2006, $2.68 billion less than the 2005 total of $14.93 billion. The 2006 total included $103 million of catastrophe losses and $394 million of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 total included $2.03 billion of catastrophe losses included in claims and claim adjustment expenses and $325 million of net unfavorable prior year reserve development. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was driven by the factors described above. In 2005, the net unfavorable prior year reserve development was concentrated in the Business Insurance segment and was primarily driven by an increase to asbestos reserves, which was partially offset by other, non asbestos related net favorable prior year reserve development in all three business segments. 74 In 2005, the Companys cost of catastrophes, net of reinsurance and including reinstatement premiums of $121 million and state assessments of $43 million, totaled $2.19 billion, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Reinstatement premiums represent additional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of reinsured losses under certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties and are recorded as a reduction of net written and earned premiums. The majority of catastrophe costs in 2005 were incurred in the Business Insurance segment ($1.41 billion) and in the Personal Insurance segment ($593 million). Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.71 billion in 2007, $367 million, or 11%, higher than the comparable total of $3.34 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting a $213 million increase from the implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents as described in more detail below. The remaining increase was primarily due to growth in business volume in 2007. In 2006, the total of $3.34 billion was $87 million, or 3%, higher than the 2005 total of $3.25 billion, primarily reflecting growth in business volume. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses totaled $3.35 billion in 2007, a decrease of $106 million, or 3%, from the comparable 2006 total of $3.46 billion. The decline primarily reflected the impact of the Companys implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in the following paragraph, which was largely offset by expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company discontinued the use of contingent commissions and implemented a new fixed agent compensation program for all of its personal insurance business. The Company also offered the majority of its agents conducting commercial insurance business the option to switch to this new program. The Companys total payout rate for all agent compensation for 2007 was substantially the same as for 2006; however, the change to the new program created a difference in the timing of commission expense recognition. The cost of the new program is required to be deferred and amortized over the related policy period (generally six to twelve months), whereas the cost of the contingent commission program was not subject to deferred acquisition cost accounting treatment and, therefore, was expensed as incurred. That timing difference resulted in a benefit to income during the 2007 transition year. The impact of this change in 2007 was to lower reported expenses by $376 million in the "General and Administrative Expenses" income statement line, and increase reported expenses by $213 million in the "Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs" income statement line, compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program. General and administrative expenses totaled $3.46 billion in 2006, an increase of $229 million, or 7%, over the comparable 2005 total of $3.23 billion. The increase in 2006 was driven by investments made throughout the Company to support business growth and product development, costs related to the Companys national advertising campaign and legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies (see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). These factors were partially offset by the impact of the favorable resolution of certain prior year state tax matters, certain tax benefits, the absence of catastrophe related state assessments and lower premium tax related expenses. Interest Expense Interest expense of $346 million in 2007 was $22 million higher than the comparable 2006 total of $324 million. Interest expense in 2006 was $38 million higher than in 2005. The increases in both years primarily reflected the impact of the Companys issuance of debt, which is described in more detail in 75 the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section herein. Proceeds from a substantial portion of debt issuances in both 2007 and 2006 were used to fund the redemption and maturity of certain of the Companys indebtedness. Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was 26.0%, 26.5% and 22.8% in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decline in 2007 compared with 2006 reflected an increase in non taxable investment income. The increase in 2006 over 2005 primarily reflected a higher level of pretax income in 2006 due to improved underwriting performance. GAAP Combined Ratios The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 56.6% in 2007 was 0.9 points lower than the comparable 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.5%. The 2007 and 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included benefits of 2.5 points and 1.9 points, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses accounted for 0.7 points and 0.5 points of the 2007 and 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios. Excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development, the 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved by 0.5 points compared with the comparable 2006 ratio, reflecting continuing improvement in current accident year results in several lines of business. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2007 was 0.2 points higher than the comparable 2006 underwriting expense ratio of 30.6%. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described above provided a benefit of 0.8 points to the expense ratios in 2007, which was more than offset by the increases in expenses discussed above. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.5% in 2006 improved by 14.4 points compared with 2005, primarily reflecting the decline in catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses accounted for 0.5 points of the 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, compared with a 10.3 point impact in 2005. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 1.9 point impact from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 1.6 point impact from net unfavorable prior year reserve development. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development improved over the 2005 ratio on the same basis, reflecting improvement in frequency and severity trends in several lines of business. The underwriting expense ratio for 2006 was 1.2 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio in 2005. The changes primarily reflect the impact of the increase in general and administrative expenses described previously. In addition, the 2006 ratio was negatively impacted by a decline in National Accounts fee income, a portion of which is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio in 2005 also included a 0.4 point impact from reinstatement premiums and state assessments. Discontinued Operations In March 2005, the Company and Nuveen Investments jointly announced that the Company would implement a program to divest its 78% equity interest in Nuveen Investments, which constituted the Companys Asset Management segment and was acquired as part of the merger on April 1, 2004. The divestiture was completed through a series of transactions in the second and third quarters of 2005, resulting in net pretax cash proceeds of $2.40 billion. The Company recorded a net operating loss from discontinued operations of $663 million in 2005, consisting primarily of $710 million of tax expense due to the difference between the tax basis and the GAAP carrying value of the Companys investment in Nuveen Investments, partially offset by the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income prior to divestiture. The Company recorded a pretax gain on disposal of $345 million ($224 million after tax) in 2005. 76 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of the Companys Business Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 11,283 $ 10,876 $ 11,116 Net investment income 2,708 2,538 2,341 Fee income 508 591 663 Other revenues 24 44 64 Total revenues $ 14,523 $ 14,049 $ 14,184 Total claims and expenses $ 10,444 $ 10,509 $ 12,968 Operating income $ 3,015 $ 2,622 $ 1,044 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 57.1 % 60.3 % 81.5 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.7 30.6 28.9 GAAP combined ratio 87.8 % 90.9 % 110.4 % Overview Operating income of $3.02 billion in 2007 was $393 million, or 15%, higher than operating income of $2.62 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting increases in net favorable prior year reserve development and net investment income, the continuation of favorable current accident year results and the resolution of certain tax matters. In addition, results in 2007 benefited from the change to the new fixed agent compensation program that is described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 and 2006 totaled $301 million and $21 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $4 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2006. Operating income of $2.62 billion in 2006 was $1.58 billion higher than operating income of $1.04 billion in 2005, primarily reflecting a decline in catastrophe losses, net favorable prior year reserve development, favorable current accident year results and an increase in net investment income. In 2005, the cost of catastrophes totaled $1.41 billion (including reinstatement premiums of $67 million), resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $21 million in 2006, compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $757 million in 2005 that was primarily driven by an increase in asbestos reserves. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income in 2006. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $11.28 billion in 2007 increased 4% over 2006 earned premiums of $10.88 billion, reflecting the growth in net written premium volume over the prior twelve months in the majority of the markets comprising this segment, driven by strong business retention rates and increases in new business volume, partially offset by minor decreases in renewal price changes. In 2006, earned premiums of $10.88 billion decreased by $240 million, or 2%, compared with 2005, as premium increases in the majority of the segments ongoing operations were more than offset by the continuing decline in other runoff operations earned premiums, including the impact of the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. The Personal Catastrophe Risk operation accounted for 77 $111 million of earned premiums in 2005. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $67 million of reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of the "Consolidated Results of Operations" discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2007 and 2006. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to its service businesses, which include claim and loss prevention services to large companies that choose to self insure a portion of their insurance risks, and claims and policy management services to workers compensation residual market pools. The $83 million and $72 million declines in fee income in 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily resulted from lower serviced premium volume due to the depopulation of workers compensation residual market pools, the impact of lower loss costs on fee income due to workers compensation reforms, primarily in California, and lower new business volume due to increased competition. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2007 of $6.67 billion declined by $180 million, or 3%, from the 2006 total of $6.85 billion, primarily reflecting an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development and continued favorable current accident year results, partially offset by an increase in business volume. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $301 million in 2007, compared with $21 million in 2006. The 2007 total was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. The commercial multi peril and general liability product lines experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial automobile product line experienced better than expected loss development due to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The property product line experienced fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006, as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. Net total prior year reserve development in 2007 included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves. The Companys completion of its annual in depth asbestos claim review in the third quarter of 2007 and its quarterly asbestos reserve reviews throughout the year resulted in no change to the Companys asbestos reserves in 2007. (Refer to the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein for additional discussion.) In 2006, net favorable prior year reserve development in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business was largely offset by increases totaling $275 million to asbestos and environmental reserves and reserve strengthening for assumed reinsurance business in runoff. The commercial multi peril and liability lines of business experienced better than anticipated loss development in 2006 that was attributable to several factors, including improving legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 in the property line of business primarily reflected less "demand surge" inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe 78 and catastrophe losses. "Demand surge" refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. The commercial automobile line of business experienced better than expected loss development which was attributable to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The reserve strengthening in assumed reinsurance was primarily due to changes in projected loss development driven by an unanticipated change in the claim settlement patterns of the underlying casualty exposures. Claims and claim adjustment expenses of $6.85 billion in 2006 were $2.51 billion lower than the 2005 total of $9.36 billion, primarily due to a significant decline in catastrophe losses and net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005. No catastrophe losses were incurred in 2006, whereas 2005 included catastrophe losses of $1.32 billion, nearly all of which resulted from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $21 million in 2006, the components of which are described above. In 2005, net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $757 million was driven by an increase to asbestos reserves of $830 million and reserve strengthening for environmental claims and runoff assumed reinsurance business. Those increases were partially offset by favorable prior year reserve development from lower frequency and severity for both casualty and property related lines of business, which were driven by increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments, coupled with better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. Company initiatives relating to claims handling, which affected claims staffing and workflows, also are believed to have contributed to the emergence of favorable severity experience in 2005. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.74 billion in 2007, 13% higher than the comparable 2006 total of $1.55 billion. The increase reflected the growth in business volume, as well as a $108 million increase from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. In 2006, the amortization of deferred amortization costs of $1.55 billion was slightly lower than the 2005 total of $1.57 billion. General and administrative expenses in 2007 totaled $2.03 billion, 4% lower than the comparable total of $2.10 billion in 2006. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in the first quarter of 2007 resulted in a reduction of $189 million in reported general and administrative expenses in 2007 compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program during those periods. That reduction was partially offset by an increase in expenses related to growth in business volume and continuing expenditures to support business growth and product development. The 2006 total included a provision for legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies. General and administrative expenses in 2006 totaled $2.10 billion, 3% higher than the comparable total of $2.04 billion in 2005. The increase in 2006 primarily reflected the segments expenditures to support business growth and product development, the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign and the legal expenses described above. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.1% in 2007 was 3.2 points lower than the comparable 2006 ratio of 60.3%. In 2007, net favorable prior year reserve development provided a 2.6 point benefit to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 0.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Adjusting for the impact of prior year reserve development in both years, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2007 was 0.8 points better than the comparable 2006 ratio, reflecting continued favorable current accident year results. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2006 improved by 21.2 points compared with the 2005 ratio of 81.5%, primarily due to the absence of catastrophe losses and 79 net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006, compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005. Catastrophe losses accounted for 12.3 points of the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 provided a 0.2 point benefit to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005 accounted for 6.8 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio. Excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development, the 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved 1.9 points over the comparable 2005 ratio, reflecting improvement in frequency and severity trends in several lines of business in 2006. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.7% in 2007, which included a 0.7 point benefit resulting from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, was 0.1 points higher than the 2006 ratio, reflecting the increases in general and administrative expenses described above, and the impact of a decline in fee income. A portion of fee income is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio for 2006 was 1.7 points higher than the 2005 ratio, primarily reflecting the increases in general and administrative expenses described above, and the impact of declines in fee income. Catastrophe related reinstatement premiums of $67 million and catastrophe related state assessments of $18 million added 0.3 points to the 2005 expense ratio. Written Premiums The Business Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Select Accounts $ 2,774 $ 2,733 $ 2,799 Commercial Accounts 2,740 2,613 2,535 National Accounts 1,859 2,169 2,627 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,380 2,279 2,154 Target Risk Underwriting 2,182 2,187 2,040 Specialized Distribution 1,033 1,036 920 Total Business Insurance Core 12,968 13,017 13,075 Business Insurance Other 49 30 378 Total Business Insurance $ 13,017 $ 13,047 $ 13,453 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Select Accounts $ 2,711 $ 2,663 $ 2,722 Commercial Accounts 2,518 2,376 2,330 National Accounts 1,056 1,135 1,230 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,301 2,196 2,080 Target Risk Underwriting 1,665 1,629 1,482 Specialized Distribution 1,015 1,022 908 Total Business Insurance Core 11,266 11,021 10,752 Business Insurance Other 52 25 247 Total Business Insurance $ 11,318 $ 11,046 $ 10,999 In Business Insurance Core, gross written premiums in 2007 declined $49 million, or less than 1%, from the comparable 2006 total, whereas net written premiums increased $245 million, or 2%, compared with 2006. The difference in growth rates between gross and net written premiums in 2007 80 was concentrated in National Accounts and was due to the nature of certain products offered in this market. A significant portion of gross written premiums for products offered by National Accounts is ceded to other insurers; as a result, a decline in gross written premiums does not necessarily have a proportional impact on net written premiums. All markets in Business Insurance Core operations, except National Accounts and Specialized Distribution, recorded net written premium growth in 2007, driven by higher new business volume throughout the majority of markets coupled with continued strong business retention rates, offset in some markets by minor decreases in renewal price changes. Net written premium growth in 2007 also benefited from a reduction in ceded premiums related to catastrophe reinsurance coverage. In Business Insurance Core operations, gross written premiums in 2006 were down slightly from 2005. Net written premiums in 2006, however, increased slightly over 2005. The disparity between gross and net written premium growth rates in 2006 was primarily due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage in the Companys Discover Re subsidiary in National Accounts that resulted in a decline in ceded premiums. For purposes of comparison between 2006 and 2005 net written premium volume, the impact of a higher level of ceded premiums for property catastrophe reinsurance in 2006 was virtually equivalent to the impact of the $67 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums in 2005. Net written premium growth in Business Insurance Core operations in 2006 was primarily concentrated in Target Risk Underwriting and Industry Focused Underwriting, driven by continued strong business retention rates, renewal price increases and higher new business volume throughout the majority of businesses comprising these markets. The decline in National Accounts net written premiums primarily reflected a reduction in premiums related to favorable loss experience on business priced on a loss sensitive basis and lower new business volume, partially offset by the decline in ceded premiums at Discover Re due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage. In Business Insurance Other operations, gross and net written premiums were down significantly from the comparable 2005 totals, reflecting the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005 and the intentional non renewal of business in the runoff operations comprising this category. Select Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.71 billion in 2007 grew 2% over 2006. New business volume increased over 2006, due in part to the introduction of the Companys enhanced quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program in 37 states. That platform is expected to be introduced in the remainder of the United States over the next six months. Enhanced marketing efforts and additional products sold to existing customers also contributed to new business growth in 2007. Business retention rates remained strong in 2007. Renewal price changes in this market remained positive in 2007 but were lower than in 2006, as price increases for coastal coverages were partially offset by declines in renewal price changes for non coastal coverages, which continue to be impacted by competitive market conditions. Net written premiums of $2.66 billion in 2006 declined 2% from 2005, primarily reflecting the impact of a reduction in premium volume from certain national small business insurance programs, the majority of which was transferred to the Specialized Distribution market. Excluding the impact of the business transferred, net written premiums increased by approximately 2% in 2006. Business retention rates remained strong and increased over 2005, and focused investments in technology and personnel led to improvement in new business volume over 2005. Renewal price changes for the Select Accounts market in 2006 were consistent with 2005, as modest pricing pressures in non coastal coverages were largely offset by price increases for coastal coverages. Commercial Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.52 billion in 2007 grew 6% over 2006, primarily driven by an increase in new business volume, coupled with continued strong business retention rates. The growth in new business volume reflected the impact of recent product introductions, additional products sold to existing customers and increased marketing efforts. Renewal price changes in this market declined from 2006 and were negative in 2007, primarily reflecting competitive market conditions. Net written premiums of $2.38 billion in 2006 increased 2% over 2005, driven by a strong increase in business retention rates and an improvement in renewal pricing. 81  National Accounts. Net written premiums of $1.06 billion in 2007 declined 7% from 2006, primarily reflecting competitive market conditions that resulted in lower business volume. Net written premiums in 2006 declined by $95 million, or 8%, from 2005, primarily reflecting a reduction in premiums related to favorable loss experience on business priced on a loss sensitive basis and lower new business volume, partially offset by the decline in ceded premiums at Discover Re due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage. Industry Focused Underwriting. Net written premiums of $2.30 billion in 2007 increased 5% over 2006. The increase was driven by the Construction business unit, where favorable economic conditions contributed to higher new business volume; the Oil & Gas business unit, due to increased business retention rates and continued strong renewal price changes; and the Public Sector unit, due to an increase in retention rates. In addition, continued strong new business volume and business retention rates in the Agribusiness business unit contributed to premium growth in 2007. Net written premiums in the Technology business unit in 2007 were level with 2006. Net written premiums of $2.20 billion in 2006 increased by 6% over 2005, driven by growth in the Construction and Oil & Gas business units. Favorable economic conditions in these industry sectors, significant increases in business retention rates and continued strong new business volume contributed to the increase in premium volume in 2006 in these two business units. The remaining three business units in this market Technology, Agribusiness and Public Sector all achieved lesser degrees of net written premium growth over 2005. Target Risk Underwriting. Net written premiums of $1.67 billion in 2007 grew 2% over 2006, driven by increases in the Inland Marine and National Property business units. Strong growth in new business volume accounted for the increase in Inland Marine net written premium volume, whereas National Propertys premium volume growth was driven by continued strong business retention rates and a decline in premiums ceded for catastrophe reinsurance coverage, partially offset by a decrease in renewal price changes, which were negative. Growth in these two business units was partially offset by a decline in Excess Casualty net written premiums. Net written premiums of $1.63 billion in 2006 increased by 10% over 2005, driven by strong growth in the National Property and Inland Marine business units. Significant renewal price increases, particularly for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures, and strong business retention rates were the primary factors accounting for net written premium growth in these two business units in 2006. The Ocean Marine business unit also contributed to net written premium growth in 2006, primarily due to a decrease in the amount of business ceded. Specialized Distribution. Net written premiums of $1.02 billion in 2007 declined less than 1% from 2006. The decline was primarily due to premium reductions in the National Programs business unit, driven by reductions in new business volume and business retention rates due to competitive market conditions. These reductions were largely offset by premium growth in the Northland business unit due to strong business retention rates and new business volume. Net written premium volume in 2006 of $1.02 billion increased 13% over 2005, primarily driven by the transfer of certain national small business insurance programs from Select Accounts to the National Programs business unit. In addition, Northland also experienced premium growth in 2006, primarily resulting from higher business retention rates and new business volume in commercial trucking, its primary line of business. In Business Insurance Other, the decline in 2007 and 2006 net premium volume compared with 2005 reflected the impact of business in runoff and the sale of the Companys Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. The runoff healthcare, reinsurance and international business acquired in the merger produced minimal written premium volume in 2007, 2006 and 2005. 82 Financial, Professional & International Insurance Results of the Companys Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 3,384 $ 3,321 $ 3,197 Net investment income 494 429 360 Fee income 1 Other revenues 29 26 20 Total revenues $ 3,907 $ 3,776 $ 3,578 Total claims and expenses $ 2,981 $ 2,968 $ 2,961 Operating income $ 675 $ 609 $ 391 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 50.8 % 53.7 % 56.8 % Underwriting expense ratio 36.8 35.3 35.7 GAAP combined ratio 87.6 % 89.0 % 92.5 % Overview In March 2007, the Company completed the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, which accounted for $25 million, $78 million and $78 million of net written premiums for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. Operating income of $675 million in 2007 was $66 million, or 11%, higher than operating income of $609 million in 2006, primarily driven by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development, higher net investment income and favorable current accident year results. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and non catastrophe losses incurred in the United Kingdom related to flooding. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $93 million in 2007, compared with $14 million in 2006. Operating income of $609 million in 2006 increased by $218 million, or 56%, over 2005. The improvement was driven by the absence of catastrophe losses in 2006, an increase in net investment income and growth in business volume, partially offset by a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and an increase in general and administrative expenses. Operating income in 2006 also benefited from favorable tax impacts from businesses outside of the United States, including an $18 million benefit associated with the then pending sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes. No catastrophe losses were incurred in 2006, whereas results in 2005 included $191 million in catastrophe costs. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $14 million in 2006, compared with $72 million in 2005. Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2007 were slightly higher than in 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes in both years, earned premiums in 2007 grew 3% over 2006. Earned premium growth was concentrated in the International group, driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange and growth in business volume over the preceding twelve months. Earned premium growth in 2007 also benefited from adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds. Earned premiums in 2006 increased $124 million, or 4%, over 2005, primarily driven by growth in Bond & Financial Products. In addition, earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $33 million of 83 reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses, primarily in the Companys operations at Lloyds. Earned premium volume in International in 2006 declined slightly from 2005, primarily reflecting the elimination of a one month reporting lag at Lloyds in 2005 that resulted in $48 million of additional earned premiums being included in 2005 results. Also contributing to the decline in earned premiums in International in 2006 was the sale of certain classes of personal lines business at Lloyds in the first quarter of 2005, which had accounted for $43 million of earned premiums in 2005. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of the "Consolidated Results of Operations" discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2007 and 2006. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $1.74 billion in 2007, a decrease of 3% from 2006, primarily reflecting an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development and the impact of the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, partially offset by the increase in business volume, $37 million of non catastrophe losses incurred in the United Kingdom in 2007 related to flooding and the impact of foreign currency rates of exchange. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 totaled $93 million, compared to $14 million in 2006. The net favorable development in 2007 primarily reflected better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including enhanced pricing and underwriting strategies throughout the International operations, and the favorable impact of legal and judicial reforms in Ireland. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2006 totaled $1.79 billion, a decrease of 1% from 2005. The 2006 total included no catastrophe losses and $14 million of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 total included $158 million of catastrophe losses and $72 million of net favorable prior year reserve development. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2005 was attributable to the better than anticipated favorable impact from changes in underwriting and pricing strategies for International property related exposures. General and administrative expenses totaled $590 million in 2007, an increase of 10% over the 2006 of $536 million. The increase primarily reflected the segments continued expenditures to support business growth and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. The Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in the first quarter of 2007 did not have a material impact on this segment. General and administrative expenses in 2006 increased by 5% over the 2005 total of $509 million. The increase primarily reflected the segments expenditures to support business growth and the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign and legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 50.8% in 2007 was 2.9 points lower than the 2006 ratio of 53.7%. The 2007 ratio included a 2.7 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, compared with a 0.4 point benefit in 2006. Excluding this factor in each year, the 2007 ratio was slightly lower than the 2006 ratio. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2006 was 3.1 points lower than the ratio of 56.8% in 2005. The 2006 ratio included no impact of catastrophe losses and a 0.4 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 ratio included a 5.5 point impact from catastrophes and a 2.3 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Excluding those factors in each year, the 2006 ratio was slightly higher than the 2005 ratio. 84 The underwriting expense ratio of 36.8% in 2007 was 1.5 points higher than the comparable 2006 expense ratio, driven by the increase in expenses supporting business growth. The underwriting expense ratio in 2006 improved by 0.4 points compared with 2005, benefiting from the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums and increased business volume. Reinstatement premiums of $33 million increased the 2005 underwriting expense ratio by 0.4 points. Written Premiums Financial, Professional & International Insurance gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,614 $ 2,657 $ 2,531 International 1,423 1,324 1,278 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 4,037 $ 3,981 $ 3,809 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,228 $ 2,255 $ 2,117 International 1,237 1,138 1,042 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,465 $ 3,393 $ 3,159 Gross and net written premiums in 2007 increased 1% and 2%, respectively, over 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, gross and net written premiums increased 3% and 4%, respectively, over 2006. Net written premiums in the Bond & Financial Products group in 2007 increased 1% over 2006 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes), primarily due to increased construction surety business volume resulting from strong economic conditions in the public works sector of the construction industry. For Bond and Financial Products (excluding the surety line of business, for which these are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2007 increased over 2006. Renewal price changes in 2007 were slightly positive but down from 2006, and new business levels declined due in part to competitive market conditions. In the International group, net written premiums in 2007 increased $99 million, or 9%, over 2006, primarily reflecting the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and strong business volume at Lloyds and in Canada. Net written premium volume in the International group in 2007 also benefited from adjustments to prior year premium estimates in the Lloyds operation. In 2007, business retention rates remained strong, new business volume increased over 2006, and renewal price changes, which were negative, in the International group declined slightly from 2006. The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 5% and 7%, respectively, over 2005. Growth in net written premium volume in 2006 resulted from strong construction surety volume in Bond & Financial Products, strong price increases for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures in the Companys operations at Lloyds, strong business retention rates and new business volume in International, and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. The elimination of a reporting lag at the Companys operations at Lloyds resulted in $39 million and $31 million of additional gross and net written premium volume in 2005, respectively. In Bond & Financial Products (excluding the surety line of business, for which these are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2006 remained strong and increased over 2005. Renewal price increases in 2006 also increased over 2005, but new business volume was down slightly from 2005. For International in 2006, business retention rates increased over 2005, renewal price changes increased slightly and new business volume was significantly higher than in 2005. Net written premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment for 2005 were reduced by 85 $33 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, primarily related to the Companys operations at Lloyds. Personal Insurance Results of the Companys Personal Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 6,803 $ 6,563 $ 6,028 Net investment income 559 548 457 Other revenues 90 94 96 Total revenues $ 7,452 $ 7,205 $ 6,581 Total claims and expenses $ 5,996 $ 5,555 $ 5,464 Operating income $ 1,019 $ 1,132 $ 775 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 58.6 % 54.8 % 62.2 % Underwriting expense ratio 28.2 28.3 26.9 GAAP combined ratio 86.8 % 83.1 % 89.1 % Overview In April 2007, the Company completed the sale of its subsidiary, Mendota Insurance Company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Mendakota Insurance Company and Mendota Insurance Agency, Inc. (collectively, Mendota). These subsidiaries primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $49 million, $187 million and $137 million of net written premiums in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. Operating income of $1.02 billion in 2007 was $113 million, or 10%, lower than operating income of $1.13 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and an increase in catastrophe losses, partially offset by growth in business volume and net investment income. In addition, results in 2007 benefited from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program, which is described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 and 2006 totaled $152 million and $359 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $163 million, compared with catastrophe losses of $103 million in 2006. Operating income of $1.13 billion in 2006 was $357 million, or 46%, higher than operating income of $775 million in 2005. Results in 2006 reflected a significant decline in catastrophe losses, strong growth in business volume, continued favorable current accident year loss trends and an increase in net investment income, partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses. Catastrophe losses in 2006 totaled $103 million, compared with a cost of catastrophes of $593 million in 2005. Results in both 2006 and 2005 benefited from significant net favorable prior year reserve development, which totaled $359 million and $360 million, respectively. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $6.80 billion in 2007 grew 4% over 2006, primarily reflecting continued strong business retention rates, increases in renewal price changes, and growth from new business volume over the preceding twelve months, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota in early April 2007. Excluding the impact of Mendota in both years, earned premiums in 2007 increased 6% over 2006. In 2006, earned premiums of $6.56 billion increased 9% over the 2005 total of $6.03 billion, primarily due 86 to significant new business volume, renewal price increases and continued strong business retention rates over the prior twelve months. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $21 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of the "Consolidated Results of Operations" discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2007 and 2006. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2007 totaled $3.99 billion, an increase of $390 million, or 11%, over 2006, primarily reflecting a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development, an increase in catastrophe losses and higher business volume, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 totaled $152 million, compared with $359 million in 2006. The 2007 total was driven by better than expected automobile loss experience due in part to claim initiatives and fewer than expected late reported homeowners claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of net favorable prior year reserve development in the Homeowners and Other line of business in 2007 was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. The net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was driven by better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. In the Automobile line of business, the improvement in 2006 was partially driven by better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices. These changes included practices which have allowed case reserves to be established more accurately earlier in the claim settlement process, thereby changing historical loss development patterns. In addition, industry and Company initiatives to fight fraud in several states led to a decrease in the total number of claims and a change in historical loss development patterns. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was partially driven by a significant decrease in the number of claims, attributable to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. These changes also resulted in a change in historical loss development patterns. In addition, for 2006, non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other loss experience was favorable due to continued evidence of a less than expected impact from "demand surge," which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. Approximately $100 million of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 resulted from a reduction in loss estimates for catastrophes incurred in 2005, primarily due to lower than expected additional living expense losses related to Hurricane Katrina. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $163 million, $60 million higher than the 2006 total of $103 million. Catastrophe losses in 2007 were primarily the result of wildfires in California and several storms throughout the United States, whereas the 2006 total was driven by several wind, rain, hail and snow storms throughout the year in the United States. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2006 totaled $3.60 billion, a decline of $154 million from the 2005 total of $3.75 billion, primarily reflecting a reduction in catastrophe losses, which was partially offset by the impact of higher business volume in 2006. Catastrophe losses of $103 million in 2006 declined significantly from the 2005 total of $547 million. The 2005 catastrophe losses were primarily the result of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. 87  Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 and 2005 was $359 million and $360 million, respectively. The 2006 total was driven by the factors described above. In 2005, in the Automobile line of business, the improvement was partially driven by better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices. These changes included practices which have allowed case reserves to be established more accurately earlier in the claim settlement process, thereby changing historical loss development patterns. In addition, industry and Company initiatives to fight fraud in several states led to a decrease in the total number of claims in 2005 and a change in historical loss development patterns. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, favorable prior year reserve development in 2005 was partially driven by a significant decrease in the number of claims, attributable to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. These changes also resulted in a change in historical loss development patterns. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.31 billion in 2007, $156 million, or 14%, higher than the comparable 2006 total of $1.15 billion. The increase included $94 million from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in 2007 described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein, as well as growth in business volume, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota. In 2006, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.15 billion, $106 million, or 10%, higher than the comparable 2005 total of $1.05 billion, primarily reflecting growth in business volume. General and administrative expenses totaled $699 million in 2007, a decrease of $105 million, or 13%, from the 2006 total of $804 million. The decrease in expenses in 2007 primarily reflected a decline in commission expenses resulting from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, as well as the impact of the sale of Mendota, which were partially offset by expenses related to increased business volume, and continued investments to support business growth and product development. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in 2007 resulted in a $165 million reduction in reported general and administrative expenses, compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program. General and administrative expenses of $804 million in 2006 were $139 million, or 21%, higher than the 2005 total of $665 million. The increase reflected increased business volume, the segments continued investments to support business growth and product development, legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies, and the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign. The 2005 total included $25 million of catastrophe related assessments. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 58.6% in 2007 was 3.8 points higher than the comparable 2006 ratio of 54.8%, primarily reflecting the decline in net favorable prior year reserve development. The ratio in 2007 included a 2.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, compared with a 5.5 point benefit in 2006. Catastrophe losses accounted for 2.4 points and 1.6 points, respectively, of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratios in 2007 and 2006. Excluding the impact of prior year development and catastrophes in both years, the adjusted 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio was 0.3 points lower than the adjusted 2006 ratio. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 54.8% was 7.4 points lower than the comparable 2005 ratio of 62.2%. The 2005 ratio included a 9.3 point impact of catastrophe losses and a 6.0 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Excluding those factors from both years, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2006 was slightly lower than the comparable 2005 ratio, reflecting continued favorable trends in current accident year loss experience in 2006. The underwriting expense ratio of 28.2% in 2007, which included a 1.0 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, was 0.1 points lower than the 2006 88 expense ratio of 28.3%, reflecting the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development. The underwriting expense ratio of 28.3% in 2006 was 1.4 points higher than the 2005 expense ratio of 26.9%, primarily reflecting the impact of the increase in general and administrative expenses in 2006 described above, and a slight increase in commission expenses. In 2005, reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses reduced earned premium volume by $21 million, and catastrophe related assessments from various insurance pools increased taxes, licenses and fees by $25 million. These factors combined to result in a 0.5 point unfavorable impact on the Personal Insurance segments 2005 underwriting expense ratio. Written Premiums The Personal Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by product line were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Automobile $ 3,673 $ 3,731 $ 3,526 Homeowners and Other 3,471 3,280 2,948 Total Personal Insurance $ 7,144 $ 7,011 $ 6,474 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Automobile $ 3,628 $ 3,692 $ 3,477 Homeowners and Other 3,207 3,019 2,751 Total Personal Insurance $ 6,835 $ 6,711 $ 6,228 Gross and net written premiums in 2007 both increased 2% over the respective totals in 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in both years, net written premiums in the Personal Insurance segment in 2007 increased 4% over 2006, driven by continued strong retention rates and increases in renewal price changes, partially offset by a decline in new business volume. Gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 8% over 2005. Net written premium volume in 2006 reflected increased costs for property catastrophe coverage (which reduces net written premiums), while net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by $21 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In the Automobile line of business, net written premiums in 2007 declined 2%, from 2006. Adjusting for the impact of the sale of Mendota, net written premiums in the Automobile line of business in 2007 increased 2% over 2006. That growth primarily reflected renewal price change increases coupled with continued strong retention rates, partially offset by a decline in new business volume due to competitive market conditions. The Companys multivariate pricing product in the Automobile line of business had been introduced in 39 states and the District of Columbia by the end of 2007. In 2006, net written premium growth of 6% over 2005 in the Automobile line of business primarily reflected a strong increase in new business, partially offset by the impact of transitioning to six month policy terms in the second half of the year for the Companys multivariate pricing product that resulted in a lower amount of reported net written premiums in 2006. Business retention rates in 2006 remained strong and consistent with prior year rates. Renewal price changes in 2006 remained positive but were slightly below those in 2005. New business volume in 2006 was significantly higher than in 2005. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2007 grew 6% over 2006, primarily reflecting renewal price change increases, particularly for coastal coverages, coupled with continued strong retention rates. New business volume in this line of business in 2007 declined from 2006, primarily driven by strategies to reduce exposure to losses on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the 89 United States. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota for both years, net written premiums in the Homeowners and Other line of business in 2007 increased 7% over 2006. Net written premiums in 2006 in this line of business grew 10% over 2005. Business retention rates and new business volume remained strong and increased over 2005. Renewal price changes in 2006 remained positive but declined from 2005. Net written premium volume in this line of business in 2006 also benefited from cross selling initiatives involving the Companys automobile multivariate pricing product. The Personal Insurance segment had approximately 7.2 million and 7.0 million policies in force at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, excluding Mendota in both years. In the Automobile line of business, policies in force at December 31, 2007 increased 1% over the same date in 2006. Policies in force in the Homeowners and Other line of business at December 31, 2007 grew by 3% over the same date in 2006. Interest Expense and Other (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Net loss $ (209 ) $ (163 ) $ (184 ) The $46 million increase in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2007 compared with 2006 was driven by the impact of debt redemptions in each year. The net loss in 2007 included an after tax loss of $25 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. Conversely, the net loss in 2006 was reduced by a $27 million after tax gain realized on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.6% subordinated debentures. After tax interest expense in 2007 totaled $224 million, compared with $207 million in 2006. The net losses in this category for 2007 and 2006 were reduced by the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. The $21 million decline in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2006 compared with 2005 was primarily due to the $27 million after tax gain referred to above. Results in 2006 also reflected the favorable resolution of various prior year federal and state tax matters and the absence of expenses associated with the amortization of discount on forward contracts related to the Companys divestiture of Nuveen Investments that impacted the 2005 loss. These factors were partially offset by incremental interest expense in 2006 due to debt issuances during the year. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While the Company has experienced a decrease in asbestos claims over the past several years, the Company continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from the Companys policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against the Companys policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. The focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including the Company. Bankruptcy proceedings have also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have 90 not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the loss and loss expense payments experienced by the Company. The Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or insolvency. The Company continues to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholders favor and other Company defenses are not successful, the Companys coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Accordingly, although the Company has seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to the Company but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for the Company. As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. On July 6, 2007, the Company announced that it had entered into a settlement to resolve fully all current and future asbestos related coverage claims relating to ACandS. Under the settlement agreement, the Company will contribute $449 million to a trust to be established pursuant to ACandS plan of reorganization. In exchange, the Company will be released from any obligations it has to ACandS for asbestos related claims and will be protected from any such claims by injunctions to be issued in the Companys favor by the federal court overseeing ACandS bankruptcy case. The settlement is subject to a number of contingencies. On August 27, 2007 the bankruptcy court overseeing ACandS bankruptcy approved the settlement and no appeals from that approval were taken. As a result, the Company has placed $449 million into escrow. Upon fulfillment of all contingencies, including final court approval of a plan of reorganization for ACandS and the issuance of the injunctions described above, those funds will be released from escrow to the trust created under ACandS plan of reorganization. The release of the funds to the trust will be recorded as a paid claim and a reduction in claim reserves and, accordingly, there will be no effect on the Companys results of operations. The Company expects to seek to recover approximately $84 million of the $449 million from reinsurers. (Also, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). In addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, by individuals challenging insurers conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos related bodily injuries. The Company anticipates the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, had entered into settlement agreements, which had been approved by the court in connection with the proceedings initiated by TPC in the Johns Manville 91 bankruptcy court. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders, while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders which required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts March 29, 2006 ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating the District Courts order on jurisdictional grounds. The parties obligations under the settlement agreements are contingent upon approval of the bankruptcy courts order. Unless the Second Circuits decision is reversed on further appeal and the bankruptcy courts order is reinstated and becomes final, the settlements will be voided, TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts due under the settlement agreements (other than certain administrative expenses) and the Company intends to litigate the direct action cases vigorously. (For a description of these matters, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder at least annually. In the course of this review, the Company considers, among other factors: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of each policyholders potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a products/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. In the third quarter of 2007, the Company completed its annual in depth asbestos claim review. As in prior years, the 2007 annual review considered active policyholders and litigation cases, including cases challenging the applicability of aggregate limits on asbestos claims. The trends noted at the completion of the 2006 review continued into 2007. The trends include: the emergence of more stable payment trends for a large proportion of policyholders; a decrease in the number of new claims received; a decrease in the number of large asbestos exposures confronting the Company due to additional settlement activity; a decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies; and the absence of new theories of liability or new classes of defendants. The Company believes that these trends indicate a reduction in the volatility associated with the Companys overall asbestos exposure. Nonetheless, there remains a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims. Beginning in 2007 the Company supplemented the existing annual in depth asbestos claim review and the existing quarterly asbestos review process with additional aggregate quarterly reserve analyses. These additional analyses provide the Company with an increased ability to detect and respond to emerging trends in its quarterly reserve estimates. The Companys asbestos reserve review includes an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder category, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions. Developing payment trends among policyholders in the Home Office, Field Office and Assumed and International categories are also analyzed. The Company also reviews its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid activity. For those policyholders for 92 which an estimate of the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and related claim adjustment expense is determined, the Company calculates, by each policy year, a ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, past ceded experience and reinsurance collections. Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves. In 2007, the Home Office and Field Office categories, which account for the vast majority of policyholders with active asbestos related claims, continued to experience an overall reduction in new claim filings. In addition, the number of policyholders tendering asbestos claims for the first time also declined. However, due to the level of trial activity involving impaired individuals, defense and indemnity costs in these categories remain at levels similar to those previously experienced by the Company. The Companys evaluations have not resulted in any data from which a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment may be determined. Payments in the Assumed and International category increased in 2007 mainly as a result of increased commutation activity. Net asbestos losses and expenses paid in 2007 were $317 million, compared with $469 million in 2006. Gross paid losses in 2007 were lower than in 2006 primarily due to installment payments made during 2006 on settlements reached in prior years. Additionally, net paid losses were lower due to increased reinsurance billings in 2007. Approximately 20% in 2007 and 50% in 2006 of total net paid losses related to policyholders with whom the Company previously entered into settlement agreements limiting the Companys liability. The Company categorizes its asbestos reserves as follows: Number of Policyholders Net Asbestos Reserves Total Net Paid (at and for the year ended December 31, $ in millions) 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Policyholders with settlement agreements 22 27 $ 62 $ 235 $ 1,152 $ 879 Home office, field office and other 1,659 1,762 211 197 2,116 2,678 Assumed reinsurance and International 44 37 466 494 Total 1,681 1,789 $ 317 $ 469 $ 3,734 $ 4,051 The policyholders with settlement agreements category includes structured settlements, coverage in place arrangements and, with respect to TPC, Wellington accounts. Reserves are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement. Structured settlements are arrangements under which policyholders and or plaintiffs agree to fixed financial amounts to be paid at scheduled times. Included in this category are TPCs settlements of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims (collectively, the Direct Action Settlement). One of the contingencies of the Direct Action Settlement is affirmance by all appellate courts of the order entered by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court with respect to the Direct Action Settlement. On February 15, 2008 the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating the District Courts order, which had substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts order. Unless the Second Circuits decision is reversed on further appeal and the bankruptcy courts order is reinstated and becomes final, the Direct Action Settlement will be voided, TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts due under the Direct Action Settlement (other than certain administrative expenses) and the Company intends to litigate the direct action cases vigorously. In that event, the settlement funds will be returned to TPCs unallocated asbestos reserve. The Company will not make an adjustment to the level of its asbestos reserves as a result of the Second Circuits decision. (For a description of these matters, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Also included in this category is the Companys announced settlement to resolve fully all current and future asbestos related coverage claims relating to ACandS. The settlement was approved by the bankruptcy court and no appeals from that approval were taken. As a result, pursuant to the settlement, a $449 million payment by the Company has been placed into escrow. Upon fulfillment of all remaining settlement contingencies, which includes final approval of a plan of reorganization for ACandS, those funds will be 93 released from escrow to the asbestos trust to be created under ACandS plan of reorganization. The funds will be released back to the Company if the remaining settlement contingencies are not met. The ACandS matter was included in the home office, field office and other category in 2006. (For a description of this matter, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Coverage in place arrangements represent agreements with major policyholders on specified amounts of coverage to be provided. Payment obligations may be subject to annual maximums and are only made when valid claims are presented. Wellington accounts refer to the 35 defendants that are parties to a 1985 agreement settling certain disputes concerning insurance coverage for their asbestos claims. Many of the aspects of the Wellington agreement are similar to those of coverage in place arrangements in which the parties have agreed on specific amounts of coverage and the terms under which the coverage can be accessed. Home office, field office and other relates to policyholders for which settlement agreements have not been reached, and also includes unallocated IBNR. Policyholders are identified for home office review based upon, among other factors: a combination of past payments and current case reserves in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential "non product" exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In addition to IBNR amounts contained in the reserves for home office and field office policyholders, the Company has established a reserve for further adverse development related to existing policyholders, new claims from policyholders reporting claims for the first time and policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation and direct actions against the Company. Assumed reinsurance exposure primarily consists of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. International is exposed to U.S. asbestos liabilities through participations in excess insurance policies, quota share and excess of loss reinsurance policies, and retrocession policies, underwritten in the London insurance market. Details of exposures under the reinsurance and retrocession policies are identified only when the Company is advised by the cedant. The Company recorded no asbestos reserve additions in 2007 and recorded pretax asbestos reserve additions of $155 million and $830 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Approximately half of the $155 million 2006 pretax reserve adjustment was due to an increase in the projected defense costs for ten policyholders. The majority of the remainder of the reserve adjustment was primarily due to continued litigation activity against smaller, peripheral defendants. The asbestos reserve addition in 2005 resulted, in part, from higher than expected defense costs due to increased trial activity for seriously impaired plaintiffs and prolonged litigation before cases are settled or dismissed. The 2005 reserve addition also considered the January 2006 court decision voiding, on procedural grounds, the previously rendered favorable arbitration decision in the ongoing ACandS litigation (described in more detail in note 15). At December 31, 2007, net asbestos reserves totaled $3.73 billion, compared with $4.05 billion at December 31, 2006. 94  The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 4,777 $ 5,103 $ 4,775 Ceded (726 ) (739 ) (843 ) Net 4,051 4,364 3,932 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct (1 ) 196 833 Ceded 1 (41 ) (3 ) Net 155 830 Accretion of discount: Direct 1 1 Ceded Net 1 1 Losses paid: Direct 423 523 506 Ceded (106 ) (54 ) (107 ) Net 317 469 399 Ending reserves: Direct 4,353 4,777 5,103 Ceded (619 ) (726 ) (739 ) Net $ 3,734 $ 4,051 $ 4,364 See " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by the Company prior to the mid 1980s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and the Company does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. The resolution of environmental exposures by the Company generally occurs by settlement on a policyholder by policyholder basis as opposed to a claim by claim basis. Generally, the Company strives to extinguish any obligations it may have under any policy issued to the policyholder for past, present 95 and future environmental liabilities and extinguish any pending coverage litigation dispute with the policyholder. This form of settlement is commonly referred to as a "buy back" of policies for future environmental liability. In addition, many of the agreements have also extinguished any insurance obligation which the Company may have for other claims, including but not limited to asbestos and other cumulative injury claims. The Company and its policyholders may also agree to settlements which extinguish any future liability arising from known specified sites or claims. These agreements also include appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect the Company. The Companys general purpose in executing these agreements is to reduce the Companys potential environmental exposure and eliminate the risks presented by coverage litigation with the policyholder and related costs. In establishing environmental reserves, the Company evaluates the exposure presented by each policyholder and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any. In the course of this analysis, the Company considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, the Company considers the many variables presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the policyholder at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between the Company and the policyholder, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. Conventional actuarial techniques are not used to estimate these reserves. In its review of environmental reserves, the Company considers: past settlement payments; changing judicial and legislative trends; its reserves for the costs of litigating environmental coverage matters; the potential for policyholders with smaller exposures to be named in new clean up actions for both on and off site waste disposal activities; the potential for adverse development; the potential for additional new claims beyond previous expectations; and the potential higher costs for new settlements. The duration of the Companys investigation and review of these claims and the extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the value of the claim to the Company vary significantly and are dependent upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of the policyholder in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the policyholder and the Company and the willingness of the policyholder and the Company to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute pertaining to these claims. Because these factors vary from claim to claim and policyholder by policyholder, the Company cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However, based upon the Companys experience in resolving these claims, the duration may vary from months to several years. The Company continues to receive notices from policyholders tendering claims for the first time. These policyholders generally present smaller exposures, have fewer sites and are lower tier defendants. Further, in many instances clean up costs have been reduced because regulatory agencies are willing to accept risk based site analyses and more efficient clean up technologies. However, the Company has experienced higher than expected defense and settlement costs driven in part by coverage disputes with its policyholders and adverse judicial developments in certain states regarding the availability of coverage for environmental claims. In addition, while the Company continues to experience a decline in both the number of new policyholders tendering claims for the first time and the number of pending lawsuits between the Company and its policyholders pertaining to coverage for environmental claims, the Company has seen a moderation in the rate of this decline. As a result of these factors, the Company increased its environmental reserve by $185 million in 2007 and $120 million in 2006. In 96 2005, the Company increased its environmental reserves by $30 million, primarily for declaratory judgment litigation costs. Net paid losses in 2007 and 2006 were $113 million and $127 million, respectively. TPC entered into a significant settlement with one policyholder in 2005. TPC executed an agreement with this policyholder which resolved all past, present and future hazardous waste and pollution property damage claims, and all related past and pending bodily injury claims. In 2006, the Company made the final payment related to this settlement and billed a substantial portion of the total settlement to its reinsurers. In addition, TPC and this policyholder entered into a coverage in place agreement which addressed the handling and resolution of all future hazardous waste and pollution bodily injury claims. Under the coverage in place agreement, TPC has no defense obligation, and there is an overall cap with respect to any indemnity obligation that might be owed. At December 31, 2007, approximately 87% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $428 million) was carried in a bulk reserve and included unresolved environmental claims, incurred but not reported environmental claims and the anticipated cost of coverage litigation disputes relating to these claims. The bulk reserve the Company carries is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate volume of in process environmental claims and the Companys experience in resolving those claims. The balance, approximately 13% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $62 million), consists of case reserves. The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 413 $ 494 $ 725 Ceded 5 (69 ) (84 ) Net 418 425 641 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 182 108 17 Ceded 3 12 13 Net 185 120 30 Losses paid: Direct 117 189 248 Ceded (4 ) (62 ) (2 ) Net 113 127 246 Ending reserves: Direct 478 413 494 Ceded 12 5 (69 ) Net $ 490 $ 418 $ 425 UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures described above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2007 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and 97 other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies the Company has issued, the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with the Companys previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against the Company and future developments pertaining to the Companys ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. The Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or insolvency. In addition, uncertainties arise from the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants, although the Company has noted a decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. (Also, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2007 totaled $74.82 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate and 4% in other investments. Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a conservative investment philosophy. The Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2007 totaled $64.92 billion, comprising $64.50 billion of publicly traded fixed maturities and $420 million of private fixed maturities. The weighted average quality ratings of the Companys publicly traded fixed maturity portfolio and private fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2007 were Aa1 and A3, respectively. Included in the fixed maturity portfolio at that date was approximately $1.64 billion of below investment grade securities. During 2007, holdings of tax exempt securities were increased to $38.55 billion to take advantage of their relatively high credit quality and attractive after tax yields. The average effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio, including short term investments, was 4.0 (4.3 excluding short term investments), at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. 98 The following table sets forth the Companys combined fixed maturity investment portfolio rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist: (at December 31, 2007, in millions) Carrying Value Percent of Total Carrying Value Quality Rating: Aaa $ 43,946 67.7 % Aa 11,827 18.2 A 4,343 6.7 Baa 3,163 4.9 Total investment grade 63,279 97.5 Non investment grade 1,641 2.5 Total fixed maturity investments $ 64,920 100.0 % The Company makes investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) that typically have high credit quality, offer good liquidity and are expected to provide an advantage in yield compared to U.S. Treasury securities. The Companys investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches which offer the most favorable return given the risks involved. One significant risk evaluated is prepayment sensitivity. While prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration) and its effect on total return cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the investment process generally favors securities that control this risk within expected interest rate ranges. The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company held CMOs classified as available for sale with a fair value of $3.59 billion and $3.56 billion, respectively. Approximately 31% and 36% of the Companys CMO holdings are guaranteed by or fully collateralized by securities issued by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, the Company held $3.79 billion and $4.36 billion of GNMA, FNMA, FHLMC or FHA mortgage backed pass through securities classified as available for sale at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Virtually all of these securities are rated Aaa. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company held commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) of $935 million and $1.07 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2007, approximately $302 million of these securities, or the loans backing such securities, contain guarantees by the United States Government or a government sponsored enterprise and $26 million were comprised of Canadian non guaranteed securities. The remaining $607 million at December 31, 2007, were comprised of U.S. non guaranteed securities, issued in 2004 and prior years. The average credit rating of these securities was "Aaa." The CMBS portfolio is supported by loans that are diversified across economic sectors and geographical areas. The Company does not believe this portfolio exposes it to a material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of these securities. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $286 million (comprising approximately 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments). The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments which contain loans to borrowers that exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios, high debt to income ratios, low loan documentation (e.g., limited or no verification of income and assets), or other characteristics that are inconsistent with conventional underwriting standards employed by government sponsored mortgage entities. Alternative documentation mortgages are mortgage loans with low loan documentation as described above. The average credit rating on all of these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Aaa" at December 31, 2007. No securities in the residential mortgage portfolio were downgraded in 2007. 99 The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 included securities issued by numerous municipalities with a total carrying value of $38.82 billion. Approximately $14.10 billion, or 36%, of the securities were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. Such insurance generally results in a rating of "Aaa" being assigned by independent ratings agencies to those securities. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities could result in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities from "Aaa" to the underlying rating of the respective security without giving effect to the benefit of insurance. Of the total $14.10 billion of insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio, approximately 96% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 76% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The Companys real estate investments include warehouses and office buildings and other commercial land and properties that are directly owned. The Companys other investments primarily comprise venture capital, through direct ownership and limited partnerships, private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships and trading securities, which are subject to more volatility than the Companys fixed income investments, but historically have provided a higher return. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the carrying value of the Companys other investments was $3.37 billion and $3.40 billion, respectively. The Company does not believe it has a material exposure to sub prime mortgages within its other investments portfolio based on recent information provided by the limited partnerships. The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included as a separate component of accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Fixed maturities $ 768 $ 422 $ 367 Equity securities 15 37 41 Venture capital 17 108 89 Other investments (excluding venture capital) 138 113 (12 ) Unrealized investment gains before tax 938 680 485 Provision for taxes 318 227 158 Net unrealized investment gains at end of year $ 620 $ 453 $ 327 Net pretax unrealized investment gains at December 31, 2007 increased by $258 million over year end 2006, primarily driven by the fixed maturity portfolio. The increase in net unrealized investment gains on fixed maturities was primarily driven by the impact of declining market interest rates on both taxable and tax exempt securities, which were partially offset by an increase in credit spreads and a decrease in unrealized investment gains in the venture capital portfolio, primarily due to sale activities. In May 2007, the Company completed a bundled sale of a substantial portion of its venture capital portfolio, which resulted in the realization of $81 million of previously unrealized net investment gains. Net pretax unrealized investment gains at December 31, 2006 increased by $195 million over year end 2005, primarily concentrated in the fixed maturity portfolio and in other investments carried at fair value. The increase in net unrealized investment gains on fixed maturities was primarily driven by the impact of declining market interest rates on tax exempt securities, which was partially offset by a slight increase in market interest rates on taxable securities. 100 Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Fixed maturities $ 37 $ 7 $ 11 Equity securities 7 4 Real estate 10 Venture capital 16 33 80 Other investments (excluding venture capital) 4 18 Total $ 70 $ 48 $ 109 101  For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $37 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $23 million resulting from the potential to sell various holdings prior to a recovery in market value and $14 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position; $7 million in the equity portfolio when it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period; $10 million in the real estate portfolio, related to the fundamental decline in the financial condition of one real estate development property; and $16 million in the venture capital portfolio on 14 holdings. Three of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period. Nine holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). The remaining two holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $7 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $6 million resulting from the potential to sell various holdings prior to a recovery in market value and $1 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position; $4 million in the equity portfolio when it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period; $33 million in the venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings. Four of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Six holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Four of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. Two of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period; and $4 million in other investments (excluding venture capital). The loss recorded was the result of one mortgage loan refinancing at less favorable terms. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $11 million in the fixed maturities portfolio related to various issuers due to credit risk associated with the issuers deteriorated financial position; $80 million in the venture capital portfolio on 22 holdings. Two of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Fifteen holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Three of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. Two of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period; and $18 million in other investments (excluding venture capital). The losses recorded were the result of an equity partnership and a private stock holding which both experienced fundamental deterioration in their financial position. The specific circumstances that led to the impairments described above did not materially impact other individual investments held during 2007, 2006 or 2005. The Company continually evaluates current developments in the market that have the potential to affect the valuation of the Companys investments. 102 The following table summarizes for all fixed maturities and equity securities available for sale for which fair value is less than 80% of amortized cost or cost at December 31, 2007, the gross unrealized investment loss by length of time those securities have continuously been in an unrealized loss position: Period For Which Fair Value Is Less Than 80% of Amortized Cost (in millions) Less Than 3 Months Greater Than 3 Months, Less Than 6 Months Greater Than 6 Months, Less Than 12 Months Greater Than 12 Months Total Fixed maturities $ 7 $ $ $ $ 7 Equity securities 2 2 Total $ 9 $ $ $ $ 9 Unrealized investment losses as of December 31, 2007 represent less than 1% of the portfolio, and, therefore, any impact on the Companys financial position would not be significant. At December 31, 2007, non investment grade securities comprised 3% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio. Included in those categories at December 31, 2007 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $799 million and a fair value of $762 million, resulting in a net pretax unrealized investment loss of $37 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented approximately 1% of the total amortized cost and approximately 1% of the fair value of the fixed income portfolio at December 31, 2007, and accounted for 12% of the total pretax unrealized investment loss in the fixed income portfolio. Following are the pretax realized losses on investments sold during the year ended December 31, 2007: (in millions) Loss Fair Value Fixed maturities $ 34 $ 1,621 Equity securities 1 31 Other 4 Total $ 35 $ 1,656 Resulting purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Companys ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools, and is generally subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product offerings. After reinsurance is purchased, the Company has limited ability to manage the credit risk to a reinsurer. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. 103 The Companys reinsurance recoverables totaled $15.64 billion at December 31, 2007, a decline of $2.18 billion from year end 2006, primarily reflecting significant collections on reinsurance recoverables, including those related to prior year hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. The following presents the Companys top five reinsurer groups, by reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2007 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of each reinsurer group at February 21, 2007: Reinsurer Group Reinsurance Recoverables A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Reinsurer Swiss Re Group $ 1,266 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Munich Re Group(1) 994 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Berkshire Hathaway Group 591 A++ highest of 16 ratings American International Group(2) 553 A+ second highest of 16 ratings XL Capital Group(3) 511 A third highest of 16 ratings (1)On January 30, 2008, A.M. Best upgraded the financial strength rating of Munich Reinsurance America, Inc. from "A" to "A+." (2)On February 14, 2008, A.M. Best placed the financial strength ratings of "A+" of most of American International Groups domestic property casualty subsidiaries and its 60% majority owned company, Transatlantic Holdings, Inc., under review with negative implications. (3)On January 25, 2008, A.M. Best downgraded the financial strength rating of XL Capital Group to "A" from "A+." At December 31, 2007, $3.0 billion of reinsurance recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, trust agreements and funds held. OUTLOOK The Companys strategic objective is to enhance its position as a consistently profitable market leader and a cost effective provider of property and casualty insurance in the United States and in selected international markets. A variety of factors continue to affect the property and casualty insurance market and the Companys core business outlook for 2008, including competitive conditions in the markets served by the Companys business segments, loss cost trends, interest rate trends and the investment environment. Competition. The Company expects property casualty market conditions to continue to become modestly more competitive in 2008, particularly for new business. The pricing environment for new business generally has less of an impact on underwriting profitability than renewal price changes, particularly in an environment of high retention rates, which the Company has experienced over the past several years. In the Business Insurance and the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments, the Company expects renewal price changes in 2008 will modestly decline from their 2007 levels. In the Personal Insurance segment, the Company expects automobile and homeowners renewal price changes will increase slightly compared to their 2007 levels. These expectations for the pricing environment, when combined with expected modestly increased loss costs, will likely result in somewhat reduced underwriting profitability in 2008 as compared to 2007. Loss Cost Trends. Loss cost trends are primarily driven by changes in claim frequency and claim severity. The industry has generally experienced unprecedented low levels of non catastrophe related claim frequency over the last several years. The Company expects this trend in claim frequency to continue in 2008 in certain lines of business, while claim frequency is expected to increase modestly in other lines of business. The Company also expects severity to increase modestly for non catastrophe related claims. 104 The Company believes that the overall trend of increased frequency and severity of catastrophic Gulf and Atlantic Coast storms experienced in recent years may continue for the foreseeable future, although the trend was not evident in the United States in 2007 and 2006. Given the potential increase in frequency and severity of storms, the Company will continue to reassess its definition of, and exposure to, coastal risks. These risks will be reflected in the pricing and terms and conditions it will offer in coastal areas. Due in part to the increased frequency and severity of the Gulf and Atlantic Coast storms, there has been some disruption in the market for coastal wind insurance, most significantly in personal lines, as insurers, including the Company, have reduced capacity and increased prices. The continued disruption in market conditions, along with the potential for increased frequency and severity of coastal storms, could result in a decrease in the amount of coastal wind coverage that the Company is able or willing to write. In recent periods, the Company has recorded net favorable prior year reserve development, primarily driven by better than expected loss experience in all of the Companys segments for prior loss years. If better than expected loss experience continues, the Company may record additional net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. In that case, the Company may also concurrently revise favorably its current year loss estimates. However, better than expected loss experience may not continue or may reverse, in which case the Company may record no favorable prior year reserve development or net unfavorable prior year reserve development in future periods. In that case, the Company may revise current year loss estimates upward in future periods. Investment Returns. Changes in the general interest rate environment affect the returns available on new investments. While a rising interest rate environment enhances the returns available on new fixed income investments, thereby favorably impacting net investment income, it reduces the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, and therefore, shareholders equity. A decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments, thereby negatively impacting net investment income, but increases the market value of existing investments and therefore, shareholders equity. In 2007, short term and long term interest rates declined. A downward trend in interest rates may continue into 2008. At December 31, 2007, approximately 6% of the Companys invested assets were comprised of equity securities, venture capital investments, private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships and trading securities, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond the Companys control may affect the value of these non fixed income investments and the realization of net investment income. The Company is not able to predict future market conditions or their impact on net investment income. Net investment income is an important contributor to the Companys results of operations, and the Company expects the investment environment to become more challenging in 2008, particularly with respect to its non fixed income investment portfolio. For a discussion of potential risks that could impact the Companys financial condition or results of operations, see Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of 105 potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. The Company also maintains liquidity at the holding company level. At December 31, 2007, total cash, short term invested assets and other readily marketable securities aggregating $1.62 billion were held at the holding company. The assets held at the holding company, combined with other sources of funds available, primarily additional dividends from operating subsidiaries, are sufficient to meet the Companys current liquidity requirements. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. The Company also has the ability to issue securities under its shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission and has access to liquidity through its $1 billion line of credit. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities of continuing operations totaled $5.29 billion, $4.77 billion and $3.59 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Cash flows in each of 2007 and 2006, as compared to the preceding year, reflected higher levels of collected premiums and net investment income, lower claim payments on catastrophe losses, as well as lower runoff claim payments. Cash flows from operations in 2007 and 2006 benefited from significant collections on reinsurance recoverables in both years, including those related to 2005 hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. These factors were partially offset by an increase in tax payments resulting from higher profitability, expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development, and higher interest payments. Cash flows in 2005 reflected an increase in loss and loss adjustment expense payments primarily related to the catastrophe losses incurred during 2005 and 2004, and an increase in tax payments resulting from higher profitability. The Company utilized $11 million, $11 million and $2.00 billion of net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, thereby reducing current regular tax payments by $4 million, $4 million and $698 million, respectively. Net cash flows provided by operating activities for all three years were negatively impacted by payments for asbestos and environmental liabilities, as well as by payments for claims related to the Companys runoff operations. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities of continuing operations totaled $2.53 billion, $3.06 billion and $5.44 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Fixed maturity securities accounted for the majority of investment purchases in all three years. As discussed in more detail in "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings," in 2007, the Company announced that it had entered into a settlement agreement, subject to contingencies, to resolve fully all current and future asbestos related coverage claims relating to ACandS, Inc. As a result, the Company has placed $449 million into escrow. Upon fulfillment of all settlement contingencies, including final court approval of a plan of reorganization for ACandS and the issuance of the injunctions described in "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings," those funds will be released from escrow to the trust created under ACandS plan of reorganization. The Company funded the escrow through the purchase of short term securities. The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid intermediate term taxable U.S. government, corporate and mortgage backed bonds and tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed income investment portfolio generally produces a duration that exceeds the estimated duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The average duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 4.0 at December 31, 2007 and 2006. 106 The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, venture capital and real estate. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity. During 2007, the Company sold a substantial portion of its venture capital investment portfolio. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed income portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed income portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, provide assurance of the Companys ability to fund the payment of claims without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. Sale of Subsidiary. The Companys cash flows in 2005 included $2.40 billion of pretax proceeds (after underwriting fees and transaction costs) from the divestiture of its equity interest in Nuveen Investments. Of this amount, $405 million was received directly by the Companys insurance subsidiaries, and the remainder was received directly by the holding company. Of the proceeds received directly by the holding company, $1.225 billion was contributed to the capital of the Companys insurance subsidiaries, with the remainder available for general corporate purposes. Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities of continuing operations totaled $2.95 billion, $1.59 billion and $473 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 total primarily reflected common share repurchases, the early redemption of debt, the repayment of maturing debt and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by the issuance of debt and proceeds from employee stock option exercises. The 2006 total primarily reflected common share repurchases, the early redemption of debt and the repayment of maturing debt, and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of debt and employee stock option exercises. In 2005, the total primarily reflected the repayment of debt and dividends to shareholders, which were partially offset by the issuance of common stock pursuant to the maturity of equity unit forward contracts and the issuance of debt. Debt Transactions. 2007. In January 2007, the Company redeemed $81 million of 8.47% subordinated debentures originally issued in 1997 and due January 10, 2027. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after January 10, 2007. In January 1997, USF&G Capital II, a business trust, issued $100 million of capital securities, the proceeds of which, along with $3 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by USF&G Corporation and subsequently assumed by the Company after the merger of The St. Paul Companies Inc. (SPC) and Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC). During the period prior to redemption, the Company had repurchased and retired $22 million of the debentures in open market transactions. Upon the Companys redemption of the remaining $81 million of subordinated debentures in January 2007, USF&G Capital II in turn used the proceeds to redeem its remaining capital securities outstanding. USF&G Capital II was then liquidated, and the Company received a $3 million distribution of capital. The Company recorded a $3 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, due to the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date, less the redemption premium paid. In March 2007, the Company issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures due March 15, 2067 for net proceeds of $986 million (after original issue discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions 107 and other expenses). The debentures were issued at a discount, resulting in an effective interest rate of 6.447%. The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 6.25% from the date of issuance to, but excluding, March 15, 2017, payable semi annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15. From and including March 15, 2017, the debentures will bear interest at an annual rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 2.215%, payable quarterly on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year. The Company has the right, on one or more occasions, to defer the payment of interest on the debentures. The Company will not be required to settle deferred interest until it has deferred interest for five consecutive years or, if earlier, made a payment of current interest during a deferral period. The Company may defer interest for up to ten consecutive years without giving rise to an event of default. Deferred interest will accumulate additional interest at an annual rate equal to the annual interest rate then applicable to the debentures. The debentures carry a 60 year final maturity and a scheduled maturity date in year thirty. During the 180 day period ending not more than fifteen and not less than ten business days prior to the scheduled maturity date, the Company is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell enough qualifying capital securities, or at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit repayment of the debentures at the scheduled maturity date. If any debentures remain outstanding after the scheduled maturity date, the unpaid amount will remain outstanding until the Company has raised sufficient proceeds from the sale of qualifying capital securities, or at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit the repayment in full of the debentures. If there are remaining debentures at the final maturity date, the Company is required to redeem the debentures using any source of funds. Qualifying capital securities are securities (other than common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity, and debt exchangeable for preferred equity) which generally are treated by the ratings agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option, in whole or in part, at any time on or after March 15, 2017 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued but unpaid interest. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option prior to March 15, 2017 (a) in whole at any time or in part from time to time or (b) in whole, but not in part, in the event of certain tax or rating agency events relating to the debentures, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed and the applicable make whole amount, in each case plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with the offering of the debentures, the Company entered into a "replacement capital covenant" for the benefit of holders of one or more designated series of the Companys indebtedness (which will initially be the 6.750% senior notes due 2036). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, if the Company redeems the debentures at any time prior to March 15, 2047 it can only do so with the proceeds of securities that are treated by the rating agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. In March 2007, the Companys $500 million, 5.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In April 2007, the Company completed the redemption of its outstanding $893 million, 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes due in 2032 (the notes). The notes were originally issued by Travelers Property Casualty Corp., and the Company assumed certain obligations relating to the notes pursuant to a Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 1, 2004. Each note had a principal amount of $25.00. The redemption price for each note was $25.5625 plus $0.009375 of accrued and unpaid interest. Any note called for redemption could be surrendered for conversion into common stock before the close of business on April 17, 2007. Each note was convertible into 0.4684 shares of common stock of The Travelers Companies, Inc. Holders of $36 million of the notes tendered their certificates in exchange for the issuance of 670,910 of the Companys common shares. The remaining $857 million 108 of notes were redeemed for cash, along with accrued interest to the date of redemption. The Company recorded a $39 million pretax loss ($25 million after tax) in other revenues in the second quarter of 2007 related to the redemption, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining unamortized issuance costs. In May 2007, the Company issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due June 15, 2012 (the 2012 senior notes), $450 million aggregate principal amount of 5.750% senior notes due December 15, 2017 (the 2017 senior notes), and $800 million aggregate principal amount of 6.250% senior notes due June 15, 2037 (the 2037 senior notes). The total net proceeds of these three senior note issuances, after original issuance discounts and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, were approximately $1.47 billion. Interest on each of the senior note issuances is payable semi annually on June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2007. Each series of senior notes is redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed, or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury Rate plus 12.5 basis points for the 2012 senior notes, 15 basis points for the 2017 senior notes and 20 basis points for the 2037 senior notes. The Company applied a portion of the net proceeds of this offering to repay approximately $442 million of senior notes maturing on August 16, 2007 and to repay approximately $42 million of medium term notes maturing in the third quarter of 2007. The remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Prior to applying these proceeds, the Company invested them in investment grade, marketable securities. In August 2007, the Companys $442 million, 5.01% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In 2007, medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $72 million and interest rates ranging from 6.85% to 7.37% matured and were fully paid. 2006. In June 2006, the Company issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2016 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2036. The notes were issued at a discount, resulting in effective interest rates of 6.30% and 6.86%, respectively. Net proceeds from the issuances (after original issue discount and expenses) totaled approximately $786 million, which the Company applied to the redemption of approximately $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures (described in more detail below), $150 million of 6.75% senior notes that matured on November 15, 2006 and $56 million of medium term notes that matured in the second half of the year. In November 2006, the Company redeemed $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures originally issued in 2001 and due October 15, 2050. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after November 13, 2006. In November 2001, St. Paul Capital Trust I, a business trust, issued $575 million of preferred securities, the proceeds of which, along with $18 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by the Company. Upon the Companys redemption of its subordinated debentures in November 2006, St. Paul Capital Trust I in turn used the proceeds to redeem its preferred securities. St. Paul Capital Trust I was then liquidated, and the Company received an $18 million distribution of capital. The Company recorded a $42 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, representing the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date. A portion of the proceeds from the June 2006 debt issuances described above was used to fund this redemption. 2005. In 2005, the Company repaid $815 million of its outstanding debt, primarily comprised of the following: maturities of $238 million of 7.875% senior notes, $79 million of 7.125% senior notes, and $99 million of medium term notes bearing interest rates ranging from 6.44% to 7.09%; and a net repayment of commercial paper borrowings of $395 million. In November 2005, the Company issued 109 $400 million of 5.50% senior notes maturing in December 2015. The majority of the proceeds was used to fund the repayment of commercial paper borrowings described above, with the remainder used for general corporate purposes. In July 2002, concurrent with the issuance of 17.8 million of SPC common shares in a public offering, SPC issued 8.9 million equity units, each having a stated amount of $50, for gross consideration of $442 million. Each equity unit initially consisted of a forward purchase contract for the Companys common stock, which matured in August 2005, and an unsecured $50 senior note of the Company (maturing in 2007). Total annual distributions on the equity units were at the rate of 9.00%, consisting of interest on the note at a rate of 5.25% and fee payments under the forward contract of 3.75%. Holders of the equity units had the opportunity to participate in a required remarketing of the senior note component. The initial remarketing date was May 11, 2005. On that date, the notes were successfully remarketed, and the interest rate on the notes was reset to 5.01%, from 5.25%, effective May 16, 2005. The remarketed notes matured on August 16, 2007. The forward purchase contract required the investor to purchase, for $50, a variable number of shares of the Companys common stock on the settlement date of August 16, 2005. The number of shares purchased was determined based on a formula that considered the average closing price of the Companys common stock on each of 20 consecutive trading days ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the settlement date, in relation to the $24.20 per share price of common stock at the time of the offering. On the August 16, 2005 settlement date, the Company issued 15.2 million common shares and received total proceeds of $442 million. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $742 million, $702 million and $628 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. On February 6, 2008, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.29 per share, payable March 31, 2008 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2008. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Share Repurchases. In May 2006, the Companys board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2 billion of shares of the Companys common stock. In January 2007, the board of directors authorized an additional $3 billion of share repurchase capacity. At December 31, 2007, the remaining repurchase capacity under these authorizations was $932 million. In January 2008, the board of directors authorized an additional $5 billion for share repurchases. Under these authorizations, repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, pursuant to preset trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price, catastrophe losses and other market conditions. The following table summarizes repurchase activity in 2007 and remaining repurchase capacity at December 31, 2007. Quarterly Period Ending Number of shares purchased Cost of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Remaining capacity under share repurchase program March 31, 2007 13,889,773 $ 725,070,439 $ 52.20 $ 3,153,874,729 June 30, 2007 11,390,800 621,499,960 54.56 2,532,374,769 September 30, 2007 11,751,435 600,233,261 51.08 1,932,141,508 December 31, 2007 19,008,213 999,954,837 52.61 932,186,671 Total 56,040,221 $ 2,946,758,497 $ 52.58 $ 932,186,671 Since the inception of the repurchase authorizations in May 2006, the Company has repurchased a cumulative total of 78.8 million shares for a total cost of $4.07 billion, or $51.61 per share, through December 31, 2007. 110  In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company acquired 1.7 million, 1.2 million and 0.8 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (at December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 Debt: Short term $ 649 $ 1,114 Long term 5,577 4,588 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs 16 58 Total debt 6,242 5,760 Preferred shareholders equity 112 129 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 25,834 24,554 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 670 452 Total shareholders equity 26,616 25,135 Total capitalization $ 32,858 $ 30,895 The increase in shareholders equity in 2007 reflected the Companys net income for the year, partially offset by the impact of common share repurchases and dividends to shareholders. Line of Credit Agreement. The Company maintains an $800 million commercial paper program with back up liquidity consisting of a bank credit agreement. On June 10, 2005, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion, five year revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions. Pursuant to covenants in the credit agreement, the Company must maintain an excess of consolidated net worth over goodwill and other intangible assets of not less than $10 billion at all times. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total consolidated debt to the sum of total consolidated debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and all other covenants related to its respective debt instruments outstanding. Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, the Company has an option to increase the credit available under the facility, no more than once a year, up to a maximum facility amount of $1.5 billion, subject to the satisfaction of a ratings requirement and certain other conditions. There was no amount outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2007. Shelf Registration. In December 2005, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued $2.50 billion and $800 million, respectively, of debt (as described above) under this shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Capacity. At December 31, 2007, the Company had $932 million of capacity remaining under its $5 billion share repurchase program previously approved by the board of directors. In January 2008, the Companys board of directors authorized a $5 billion increase to the program, subject to the factors listed in the "Share Repurchases" section above. 111 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2007, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claims related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2007 that are expected to be settled in cash. The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments, estimated claims and claims related payments (gross of the estimated reinsurance recoveries) and liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, at December 31, 2007 were as follows: 112 Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt(1) Medium term notes $ 170 $ 149 $ 21 $ $ Senior notes 4,550 400 250 250 3,650 Junior subordinated debentures 1,254 1,254 Zero coupon convertible notes 141 141 Private placement notes 18 3 4 11 Total debt principal 6,133 552 416 261 4,904 Interest 5,467 359 672 631 3,805 Total long term debt obligations 11,600 911 1,088 892 8,709 Operating leases(2) 883 203 313 174 193 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 244 112 95 37 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 100 20 40 40 Other purchase commitments(5) 80 27 11 4 38 Total purchase obligations 424 159 146 81 38 Long term unfunded investment commitments(6) 1,598 396 552 409 241 Estimated claims and claims related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 58,750 12,580 16,244 9,780 20,146 Claims from large deductible policies(8) Loss based assessments(9) 221 30 50 24 117 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 189 122 65 2 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 363 158 110 37 58 Total estimated claims and claims related payments 59,523 12,890 16,469 9,843 20,321 Liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits(12) 268 268 Total $ 74,296 $ 14,559 $ 18,836 $ 11,399 $ 29,502 (1)See note 7 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 7. (2)Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3)Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4)In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through 2012. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. (5)Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. 113 (6)Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for investments in real estate partnerships, private equities and hedge funds. (7)The amounts in "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in note 4 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance receivables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claims adjustment expense) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance. (See below.) The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance receivables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance receivables $ 14,779 $ 2,942 $ 3,835 $ 2,354 $ 5,648 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expense, net $ 43,971 $ 9,638 $ 12,409 $ 7,426 $ 14,498 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2007. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance receivables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance receivables have been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements.) (8)Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. "Claims from large deductible policies" represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related 114 deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as "contractholder payables" and "contractholder receivables," respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/ receivables $ 6,696 $ 1,730 $ 1,938 $ 1,006 $ 2,022 (9)The amounts in "Loss based assessments" relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. (10)The amounts in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11)The amounts in "Payouts from ceded funds withheld" represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (12)Amounts are included in the consolidated balance sheet as "Other liabilities" and "Deferred tax assets." Some of the Companys liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits have associated temporary differences for which offsetting current or deferred tax assets exist and are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Receivables related to unrecognized tax benefits $ 209 $ $ 209 $ $ The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company was not required to make any contributions to its qualified pension plan in 2007 or 2006 and does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to the qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. 115 Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $4.02 billion is available by the end of 2008 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The Company received $2.73 billion of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2007. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2007, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to agency loans and letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, third party loans related to venture capital investments and various indemnifications related to the sale of business entities to third parties. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment impairments and goodwill impairments. Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement 116 patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing loss reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries, reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The loss reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than currently reserved favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established loss reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; and estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophes occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation, which totaled $4.83 billion at December 31, 2007. While the ongoing review of asbestos claims and associated liabilities and of environmental claims considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." 117  Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2007 2006 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 7,180 $ 12,388 $ 19,568 $ 7,555 $ 12,414 $ 19,969 Property 1,069 963 2,032 1,612 978 2,590 Commercial multi peril 1,860 2,499 4,359 1,940 2,693 4,633 Commercial automobile 2,450 1,640 4,090 2,573 1,801 4,374 Workers compensation 9,373 6,474 15,847 9,142 6,337 15,479 Fidelity and surety 878 1,026 1,904 1,035 838 1,873 Personal automobile 1,466 998 2,464 1,505 1,092 2,597 Homeowners and personal other 545 739 1,284 481 706 1,187 International and other 3,054 3,017 6,071 3,296 3,204 6,500 Property casualty 27,875 29,744 57,619 29,139 30,063 59,202 Accident and health 71 10 81 76 10 86 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 27,946 $ 29,754 $ 57,700 $ 29,215 $ 30,073 $ 59,288 The $1.59 billion decline in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves in 2007 primarily reflected payments related to operations in runoff (including asbestos and environmental payments), prior year hurricane losses, and favorable prior year reserve development. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril lines and International and other lines in the summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see "Asbestos Claims and Litigation", "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and "Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves". General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics ("components") and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates 118 are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Policies written on a claims made basis require that claims be reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The use of the occurrence form accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, and it is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR claims to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving 119 such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being "low frequency/high severity," while lines without this "large claim" sensitivity are referred to as "high frequency/low severity". Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, high frequency/low severity lines tend to have much greater spread of estimation risk, such that the impact of individual claims are relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimate selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. The merger of TPC and SPC in 2004 resulted in the exposure of each others actuaries and claim departments to different products, data histories, analysis methodologies, claim settlement experts, and more robust data when viewed on a combined basis. This impacted the range of estimates produced by the Companys actuaries, as they reacted to new data, approaches, and sources of expertise to draw upon. It also resulted in additional levels of uncertainty, as past trends (that were a function of past products, past claim handling procedures, past claim departments, and past legal and other experts) may not repeat themselves, as those items affecting the trends change or evolve due to the merger. This also increased the potential for material variation in estimates, as experts can have differing views as to the impact of these frequently evolutionary changes. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends reestablish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty ("risk factors") generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method and in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, resulting in an ultimate claim liability that is different from that being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. 120 The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods.) While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, those evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). 121 The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analysis may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. The above is generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method, which uses the earned premium for the current year multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through analysis of prior experience periods using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is due to the need to evaluate the underlying cause of the trends observed, and may include the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, 122 from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for "construction defect" claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an "occurrence basis," certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a "claims made" basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately, such as asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such "defense within the limits" policies are most common for "claims made" products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the "event" triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving 123 multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also increase the potential recognition lag, i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure. The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved, and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice, and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. Besides the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development methods and S curves for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company utilizes the BF method more heavily than paid and case incurred development. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.6% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 3% to +14% (averaging +5%) for the Company and 4% to +7% (averaging +2%) for the industry overall. The 124 Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development came from certain business that has since been exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 27% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was 2% for 2007, +2% for 2006 and +4% for 2005. The 2007 change was driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2006 change largely resulted from directors and officers and errors and omissions adjustments due to worse than expected large loss activity and additional information from detailed claim reviews, primarily associated with accident years 2002 and 2003. The 2005 change was the net result of numerous adjustments for various components with no individual item being a primary driver. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. 125 Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to +26% (averaging 5%) for the Company and 14% to +7% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development came from certain business that has since been exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Property reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change can be more volatile than the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property due to weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the last half of the year and generally do not clearly resolve until the following year. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 18% for 2007, 11% for 2006 and 34% for 2005. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006 as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. The 2006 change primarily reflected less "demand surge" inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe and catastrophe losses. The 2005 change was primarily due to better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. Such material changes did not materialize in 2007, 2006 or 2005. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property include larger customers. See "Property risk factors" and General liability risk factors," discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 8% to +2% (averaging 4%) for the Company and 2% to +6% (averaging +2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. 126 Commercial multi peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 8% for 2007, 4% for 2006 and 6% for 2005. The 2007 and 2006 changes were attributable to better than expected results due to, among other factors, increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2005 change was the result of increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments, coupled with better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components; bodily injury liability, property damage liability, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment 127  Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to +9% (averaging 1%) for the Company and 2% to +9% (averaging +2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 10% for 2007, 7% for 2006 and 5% for 2005. The 2007 change was due to better than expected loss development, for recent accident years, as a result of more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The 2006 change was due to better than expected loss development, primarily for accident years 2003 through 2005, which was attributable to favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The 2005 change was due to the effect of increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria, especially for accident year 2004. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. 128 Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules ("inflation") Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 2% to +2% (averaging 0%) for the Company and 2% to +4% (averaging +1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 27% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2007, 2006 and 2005. (1)These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment, or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 129 Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards 130 Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 7% to +138% (averaging +21%) for the Company and 9% to +24% (averaging +7%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% for 2007, 5% for 2006 and 0% for 2005. The 2006 change was due to better than expected large loss activity. Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies 131 No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Personal automobile book of business risk factorsc Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to +1% (averaging 4%) for the Company and 6% to 0% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 5% for 2007, 7% for 2006 and 9% for 2005. The decreases in 2007, 2006 and 2005 were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. 132 Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 31% to +3% (averaging 10%) for the Company and 9% to +11% (averaging 3%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 2% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change can be more volatile than the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property due to weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the last half of the year and generally do not clearly resolve until the following year. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 3% for 2007, 22% for 2006 and +3% for 2005. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of the change was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. The 2006 change was due to lower than expected additional living expenses related to Hurricane Katrina as well as better than expected non catastrophe related frequency and severity, due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims, and continued evidence of a less than expected impact 133 from demand surge. The 2005 change was driven by additional loss development from the 2004 Florida hurricanes. International and other International and other includes products written by International and other products not discussed above. The principal component of "other" claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is primarily runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct), and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to "prove" not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) 134 International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, "claims made" language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 9% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. From time to time, the Company considers the commutation of reinsurance contracts. Changes in estimated reinsurance recoverables and commutation activity could result in additional income statement charges. Total reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2007 declined by $2.18 billion from the same date in 2006, primarily reflecting significant collections on reinsurance recoverables, including those related to prior year hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2007 declined by $85 million from the same date in 2006, generally due to settlement activity and commutations. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business and have the obligation of the participating insurance companies on a joint and several basis supporting these cessions. 135 The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 10,731 $ 12,837 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (688 ) (773 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 10,043 12,064 Structured settlements 3,615 3,758 Mandatory pools and associations 1,983 1,998 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 15,641 $ 17,820 Investment Valuation and Impairments Valuation of Investments Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities The Company utilizes a nationally recognized pricing service to estimate fair value measurements for over 99% of its fixed maturities and equity securities. The pricing service utilizes market quotations for securities (e.g., public common and preferred and certain U.S. Treasuries) that have quoted prices in active markets. Since many fixed maturities do not trade on a daily basis, the pricing service prepares estimates of fair value measurements for these securities using its proprietary pricing applications which include available relevant market information, benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings, and matrix pricing. Additionally, the pricing service uses an Option Adjusted Spread model to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The pricing service evaluates each asset class on its own based on relevant market information, relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. The market inputs utilized in the pricing evaluation, listed in the approximate order of priority, include: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, and industry and economic events. The extent of the use of each market input depends on the asset class and the market conditions. Depending on the security, the priority of use of inputs may change or some market inputs may not be relevant. Additionally, for some securities additional inputs may be necessary. The nationally recognized pricing service utilized by the Company has indicated that they will only produce an estimate of fair value if there is objectively verifiable information to produce a valuation. If the pricing service discontinues pricing an investment, the Company would be required to produce an estimate of fair value using some of the same methodologies as the pricing service, but would have to make assumptions for market based inputs that are unavailable due to market conditions. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties. As such, the estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold immediately. Additionally, valuation of fixed income investments is more subjective when the markets are illiquid due to the lack of market based inputs, which may increase the potential that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of an investment is not reflective of the price at which an actual transaction would occur. 136  Real Estate Fair value is established at the time of acquisition by internal analysis or external appraisers, using discounted cash flow analyses and other acceptable techniques. The Company had no real estate held for sale at December 31, 2007 or 2006. Other Investments The Companys investment portfolio includes non publicly traded investments, such as venture capital investments (as discussed below), private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships, certain fixed income and equity securities, and stock purchase warrants of a publicly traded company. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for joint ventures and limited partnerships. Certain other private equity investments, including venture capital investments, are reported at estimated fair value. These non publicly traded securities are valued based on factors such as recent financial information, available market data, and management judgment. Venture Capital Investments In May 2007, the Company completed the bundled sale of a substantial portion of its venture capital portfolio. Prior to the sale, these venture capital investments were consolidated in the Companys financial statements. The Companys venture capital investments are generally non publicly traded instruments in early stage companies and, historically, have a holding period of four to seven years. These investments are primarily in the health care, software and computer services, and networking and information technologies infrastructures industries. Certain venture capital investments that are controlled by the Company are consolidated in the Companys financial statements. The underlying investments of these venture capital investments are reported at estimated fair value. The fair value of the venture capital investments is based on an estimate determined by the external fund manager and reviewed by the Company for investments in which there is no public market. The external fund manager reviews such factors as recent filings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth, and other business and market sector fundamental statistics in estimating fair values of specific investments. With respect to the Companys valuation of such non publicly traded venture capital investments, on a quarterly basis, the Companys portfolio managers and the external fund manager review and consider a variety of factors in determining the valuation of the investments and the potential for other than temporary impairments. Factors considered include the following: The investees most recent financing events; An analysis of whether a fundamental deterioration or improvement has occurred; Whether the investees progress has been substantially more or less than expected; Whether or not the valuations have improved or declined significantly in the investees market sector; Whether or not the external fund manager and the Company believe it is probable that the investee will need financing within six months at a lower price than our carrying value; and Whether or not the Company has the ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery, enabling it to receive value equal to or greater than our cost. The quarterly valuation procedures described above are in addition to the portfolio managers ongoing responsibility to frequently monitor developments affecting those invested assets, paying particular attention to events that might give rise to impairment write downs. 137 Investment Impairments The Company recognizes an impairment loss when an invested assets value declines below cost, adjusted for accretion, amortization and previous other than temporary impairments (new cost basis), and the change is deemed to be other than temporary, or if it is determined that the Company will not be able to recover all amounts due pursuant to the issuers contractual obligations prior to sale or maturity. When the Company determines that an invested asset is other than temporarily impaired, the invested asset is written down to fair value, and the amount of the impairment is included in earnings as a realized investment loss. The fair value then becomes the new cost basis of the investment, and any subsequent recoveries in fair value are recognized at disposition. The Company recognizes a realized loss when impairment is deemed to be other than temporary even if a decision to sell an invested asset has not been made. When the Company has decided to sell a temporarily impaired available for sale invested asset and the Company does not expect the fair value of the invested asset to fully recover prior to the expected time of sale, the invested asset is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired in the period in which the decision to sell is made. Factors considered in determining whether a decline is other than temporary include the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, and the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. The Companys process for reviewing invested assets for impairments during any quarter includes the following: Identification and evaluation of investments that have possible indications of other than temporary impairment, which includes an analysis of investments with gross unrealized investment losses that have fair values less than 80% of cost for six consecutive months or more; Review of portfolio manager(s) recommendations for other than temporary impairments based on the investees current financial condition, liquidity, near term recovery prospects and other factors; Consideration of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or triggers that may cause individual investments to qualify as having other than temporary impairments; and Determination of the status of each analyzed investment as other than temporary or not, with documentation of the rationale for the decision. Sales of Temporarily Impaired Invested Assets The Company may, from time to time, sell invested assets subsequent to the balance sheet date that were considered temporarily impaired at the balance sheet date. Such sales are generally due to events occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date that result in a change in the Companys intent or ability to hold an invested asset. The types of events that may result in a sale include significant changes in the economic facts and circumstances related to the invested asset, significant unforeseen changes in the Companys liquidity needs, or changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment. Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities An investment in a fixed maturity or equity security which is available for sale is impaired if its fair value falls below its cost or new cost basis, and the decline is considered to be other than temporary. A fixed maturity security is other than temporarily impaired if it is probable that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due under the securitys contractual terms or where the Company does not 138 have the intent to hold the security. Equity securities are other than temporarily impaired when it becomes apparent that the Company will not recover its cost over the expected holding period. Further, for securities expected to be sold, an other than temporary impairment charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security to recover prior to the expected date of sale. Additionally, for certain securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (including asset backed securities), the Company periodically updates its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security. If management determines that the fair value of a securitized financial asset is less than its carrying amount and there has been a decrease in the present value of the estimated cash flows since the last revised estimate, considering both timing and amount, then an other than temporary impairment is recognized. Real Estate Investments The carrying value of a real estate property is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The review for impairment includes an estimate of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the real estate property. An impairment loss is recognized if the expected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the real estate property. The impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Other Investments Mortgage Loans A mortgage loan is considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect principal and interest amounts due. For mortgage loans that are determined to be impaired, a reserve is established for the difference between the amortized cost and fair market value of the underlying collateral. In estimating fair value, the Company uses interest rates reflecting the current real estate financing market returns. Impaired loans were not material at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Venture Capital Investments and Non Publicly Traded Investments Venture capital investments and non publicly traded investments are reviewed quarterly for other than temporary impairment by the external fund manager and the Companys portfolio managers. An impairment loss is recognized if, based on the specific facts and circumstances, it is probable that the Company will not be able to recover all of the cost of an individual holding. Other Investments Excluding Venture Capital Investments Included in other investments are partnership investments and investments in limited liability companies (together "partnerships") that generally report investments on their balance sheet at fair value. The partnership investments include private equity investments and investments in hedge funds. The managers/general partners of the private equity partnerships provide financial information quarterly which is generally available to investors, including the Company, within three to six months following the date of the reporting period. The hedge funds provide financial information monthly which is available to investors within one month following the date of the reporting period. The Company reviews these investments for impairment no less frequently than quarterly and monitors the performance throughout the year through discussions with the managers/general partners. If the Company becomes aware of an other than temporary impairment of a partnership investment at the balance sheet date prior to receiving financial information, it will record an impairment charge consistent with the Companys impairment policy. 139 Intangible Impairments The Company performs a review on at least an annual basis, of goodwill held by its reporting units, which are the Companys three operating and reportable segments: Business Insurance, Financial, Professional & International Insurance and Personal Insurance. The impairment test of goodwill is a two step process. The first step is to identify any potential impairment using a multiple of earnings approach to estimate the fair value of the reporting units. The fair values of the reporting units are then compared to their carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying amounts of the reporting units exceed their fair value, a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. The Companys review did not result in an impairment of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Other indefinite lived intangible assets held by the Company are also reviewed for impairment on at least an annual basis. The classification of the asset as indefinite lived is reassessed and an impairment is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. The Companys review did not result in an impairment of indefinite lived intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A Risk Factors." FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. The Company is currently required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a proposed release for comment that would allow U.S. domestic companies the option to prepare their financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), instead of in accordance with GAAP. The SEC is considering comments it has received and may make a further proposal during 2008. The SEC has also indicated that it is considering whether to require U.S. domestic companies to prepare their financial statements in accordance with IFRS; however, the Company would not expect any such requirement to take effect for at least a number of years. The IASB is currently evaluating IFRS as it applies to insurance companies. Among other things, the IASB is considering methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by GAAP. The FASB and the IASB are also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. The Company is not able to predict whether it will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS) may impact the Companys financial statements in the future. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Specifically, earnings guidance, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans and statements about the potential impact of the recent disruption in the sub prime and other financial markets on the Companys investment portfolio and 140 underwriting results are forward looking, and the Company may make forward looking statements about its results of operations (including, among others, premium volume, net and operating income, investment income, return on equity and combined ratio), and financial position (including, among others, invested assets and liquidity); the sufficiency of asbestos and other reserves (including, among others, asbestos claim payment patterns); the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; investment performance; market conditions; and strategic initiatives. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors". and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2007. The Companys market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $74.82 billion and $72.27 billion, respectively, of which 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 6.5% and 6.0%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $286 million (comprising approximately 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments). The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments which contain loans to borrowers that exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios, high debt to income ratios, low loan documentation (e.g., limited or no verification of income and assets), or other characteristics that are inconsistent with conventional underwriting standards employed by government sponsored mortgage entities. Alternative documentation mortgages are mortgage loans with low loan documentation as described above. The average credit rating on all of these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Aaa" at December 31, 2007. No securities in the residential mortgage portfolio were downgraded in 2007. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 included securities issued by numerous municipalities with a total carrying value of $38.82 billion. Approximately $14.10 billion, or 36%, of the securities were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. Such insurance generally results in a rating of "Aaa" being assigned by independent ratings agencies to those securities. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities could result in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities 141 from "Aaa" to the underlying rating of the respective security without giving effect to the benefit of insurance. Of the total $14.10 billion of insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio, approximately 96% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 76% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 7 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Managements Discussion and Analysis. The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.9% and 2.8% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 2.2% of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2007 or 2006. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 142 For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2007 and 2006 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.5 billion and $2.3 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. As a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the Companys consolidated balance sheet, primarily claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the Companys exposure to foreign currencies. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $485 million and $438 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 143  
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company). 2007 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2007 Consolidated Results of Operations Income from continuing operations and net income of $4.60 billion, or $7.04 per share basic and $6.86 diluted Net favorable prior year reserve development of $546 million pretax ($351 million after tax) Net earned premiums of $21.47 billion GAAP combined ratio of 87.4% Pretax net investment income of $3.76 billion ($2.92 billion after tax) Pretax net realized investment gains of $154 million ($101 million after tax) 2007 Consolidated Financial Condition Total assets of $115.22 billion Total investments of $74.82 billion, up $2.55 billion from December 31, 2006; fixed maturities and short term securities comprise 94% of total investments Total debt of $6.24 billion, resulting in a debt to total capital ratio of 19.4% Repurchased 56.0 million common shares for total cost of $2.95 billion under share repurchase authorization Shareholders equity of $26.62 billion, up $1.48 billion from December 31, 2006; book value per common share of $42.22, up 15% from December 31, 2006 Holding company liquidity of $1.62 billion CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW The Company provides a wide range of property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals, primarily in the United States and in selected international markets. 68 Consolidated Results of Operations For the year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Revenues Premiums $ 21,470 $ 20,760 $ 20,341 Net investment income 3,761 3,517 3,165 Fee income 508 591 664 Net realized investment gains 154 11 17 Other revenues 124 211 178 Total revenues 26,017 25,090 24,365 Claims and expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses 12,397 12,244 14,927 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 3,706 3,339 3,252 General and administrative expenses 3,352 3,458 3,229 Interest expense 346 324 286 Total claims and expenses 19,801 19,365 21,694 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 6,216 5,725 2,671 Income tax expense 1,615 1,517 610 Income from continuing operations 4,601 4,208 2,061 Discontinued operations: Operating loss, net of taxes (663 ) Gain on disposal, net of taxes 224 Loss from discontinued operations (439 ) Net income $ 4,601 $ 4,208 $ 1,622 Income from continuing operations per share Basic $ 7.04 $ 6.12 $ 3.04 Diluted $ 6.86 $ 5.91 $ 2.95 GAAP combined ratio Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 56.6 % 57.5 % 71.9 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.8 30.6 29.4 GAAP combined ratio 87.4 % 88.1 % 101.3 % The Companys discussions of income from continuing operations, loss from discontinued operations, net income and segment operating income included in the following discussion are presented on an after tax basis. Discussions of the components of net income and segment operating income are presented on a pretax basis, unless otherwise noted. Discussions of earnings per common share are presented on a diluted basis. Overview Income from continuing operations of $6.86 per common share in 2007 was 16% higher than the $5.91 per common share in 2006. Income from continuing operations in 2007 totaled $4.60 billion, 9% higher than $4.21 billion in 2006. The higher rate of growth in per share income compared with the rate of growth in actual income in 2007 over 2006 reflected the impact of the Companys significant common share repurchases since its repurchase program began in the second quarter of 2006. The increase in income from continuing operations in 2007 reflected growth in net investment income, a higher level of net favorable prior year reserve development, an increase in net realized investment 69 gains, favorable current accident year results and increased business volume, partially offset by an increase in expenses and a decline in fee income. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $546 million in 2007, compared with net favorable prior year reserve development of $394 million in 2006. Expenses in 2007 included a net benefit of $163 million due to the implementation of a new fixed, value based compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents, which resulted in a reduction in commission expense compared to what would have otherwise been reported, due to a change in the timing of expense recognition compared with 2006. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $167 million, compared with $103 million in 2006. Income from continuing operations in both 2007 and 2006 included after tax benefits of $86 million due to the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. The 2007 total also included net realized investment gains of $154 million, compared with net realized investment gains of $11 million in 2006. Income from continuing operations in 2006 totaled $4.21 billion, or $5.91 per share, compared with 2005 income from continuing operations of $2.06 billion, or $2.95 per share. The $2.15 billion increase in 2006 operating results reflected a significant decline in catastrophe losses, net favorable prior year reserve development, strong growth in net investment income and higher business volume. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income. Catastrophe losses in 2006 totaled $103 million, whereas results in 2005 included $2.19 billion of catastrophe costs, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $394 million in 2006, compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $325 million in 2005. In 2005, the Company sold its equity interest in Nuveen Investments, which constituted its Asset Management segment. The Company recorded a net loss from discontinued operations of $439 million, consisting primarily of $710 million of tax expense which resulted from the difference between the tax basis and the GAAP carrying value of the Companys investment in Nuveen Investments, partially offset by the $224 million after tax gain on the divestiture and the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income for 2005. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2007 totaled $21.47 billion, an increase of $710 million, or 3%, over 2006. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 4% in 2007 over 2006 primarily reflected the impact of the growth in business volume over the preceding twelve months. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 2% in 2007 over 2006 was driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange, growth in business volume and a benefit from adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds, partially offset by the impact of the sale of the Companys Mexican surety subsidiary, Afianzadora Insurgentes, S.A. de C.V. (Afianzadora Insurgentes), in late March 2007. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 4% in 2007 over 2006 reflected continued strong business retention rates, continued renewal price increases and growth from new business volumes over the preceding twelve months, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota Insurance Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, Mendota) in early April 2007. Earned premiums in 2006 totaled $20.76 billion, an increase of $419 million, or 2%, over the 2005 total of $20.34 billion. Earned premiums in 2006 were negatively impacted by an increase in property catastrophe reinsurance costs. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $121 million of reinstatement premiums, which represent additional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that had been exhausted as a result of reinsured losses under certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2006 declined 2% from the comparable 2005 total, primarily reflecting the impact of business in 70 runoff and the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. Earned premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment in 2006 increased 4% over 2005, primarily reflecting growth in Bond & Financial Products and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 9% in 2006 reflected strong new business volume and continued renewal price increases. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys investments. (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Average investments(a) $ 73,872 $ 71,252 $ 66,695 Pretax net investment income 3,761 3,517 3,165 After tax net investment income 2,915 2,712 2,438 Average pretax yield(b) 5.1 % 4.9 % 4.7 % Average after tax yield(b) 3.9 % 3.8 % 3.7 % (a)Excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of tax, and is adjusted for cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income. (b)Excludes net realized gains and losses and unrealized investment gains and losses. Net investment income totaled $3.76 billion in 2007, an increase of $244 million, or 7%, over 2006 net investment income of $3.52 billion. The increase in 2007 was primarily the result of continued growth in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio resulting from strong cash flows from operating activities and higher yields on long term taxable fixed maturity securities. Also contributing to investment income growth in 2007 were strong levels of net investment income from the Companys real estate joint venture investments. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2007 totaled $64.15 billion, $1.91 billion higher than year end 2006. The average pretax investment yield was 5.1% in 2007, compared with 4.9% in 2006. The increase primarily reflected strong returns generated by the real estate joint venture investments and higher yields on taxable investments purchased in 2007. Net investment income totaled $3.52 billion in 2006, an increase of $352 million, or 11%, over 2005 net investment income of $3.17 billion. The increase in 2006 was primarily the result of higher yields on short term and long term taxable securities, continued growth in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio resulting from strong cash flows from operating activities and a decline in investment expenses. Also contributing to investment income growth in 2006 was the full year impact of investment returns from the investment of $2.40 billion in proceeds from the divestiture of the Companys equity interest in Nuveen Investments during 2005. The Companys real estate joint venture investments also produced strong levels of net investment income in 2006. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2006 totaled $62.24 billion, $3.63 billion higher than year end 2005. The average pretax investment yield was 4.9% in 2006 compared with 4.7% in 2005. The increase in yield primarily reflected higher yields on taxable investments purchased in 2006 and the strong returns generated by the real estate joint venture investments. The Company allocates invested assets and the related net investment income to its reportable business segments. Pretax net investment income is allocated based upon an investable funds concept, which takes into account liabilities (net of non invested assets) and appropriate capital considerations for each segment. For investable funds, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the estimated duration of the loss reserves future cash flows, the interest rate environment at the time the losses were incurred and A+ rated corporate debt instrument yields. For capital, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the average yield on the total investment portfolio. The 71 benchmark investment yields are applied to each segments investable funds and capital, respectively, to produce a total notional investment income by segment. The Companys actual net investment income is allocated to each segment in proportion to the respective segments notional investment income to total notional investment income. Fee Income The National Accounts market in the Business Insurance segment is the primary source of the Companys fee based business. The declines in fee income in 2007 and 2006 compared with the respective prior years is described in the Business Insurance segment discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains Net realized investment gains in 2007 totaled $154 million, compared with net realized investment gains of $11 million in 2006. The 2007 total included $91 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $16 million) generated by the venture capital portfolio (including an $81 million net realized investment gain from the bundled sale of a substantial portion of the Companys venture capital investment holdings), $63 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of a privately held security, $21 million of net realized investment gains related to the Companys holdings of stock purchase warrants of Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., a publicly held company, and $5 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $37 million) from the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These gains were partially offset by a net realized loss of $24 million related to the divestiture of a subsidiary. Net realized investment gains in 2006 totaled $11 million, compared with net realized investment gains of $17 million in 2005. The 2006 total included $49 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $33 million) generated by the venture capital portfolio and $30 million of net realized investment gains related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts (which require a daily mark to market settlement and are used to shorten the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio). These gains were substantially offset by $33 million of net realized investment losses from the fixed maturity portfolio (including $7 million of impairment losses) and $22 million of net realized investment losses related to the Companys holdings of stock purchase warrants of Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd. In addition, the Company incurred net realized losses of $11 million related to the divestiture of two small subsidiaries. Net realized investment gains in 2005 were primarily generated from sales of venture capital investments and equity securities. In addition, the Company realized a gain of $21 million from the sale of its Personal Catastrophe Risk operation and $13 million of net gains related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts. Net realized investment gains in 2005 were reduced by $109 million of impairment losses, which were concentrated in the venture capital portfolio as described in more detail later in this discussion. Further information regarding the nature of impairment charges in each year is included in the "Investment Portfolio" section later in this discussion. Other Revenues Other revenues in all periods presented primarily consist of premium installment charges. In 2007, other revenues also reflected a $39 million loss related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. Other revenues in 2006 included a $42 million gain on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.60% subordinated debentures. 72  Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Business Insurance $ 13,017 $ 13,047 $ 13,453 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 4,037 3,981 3,809 Personal Insurance 7,144 7,011 6,474 Total $ 24,198 $ 24,039 $ 23,736 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Business Insurance $ 11,318 $ 11,046 $ 10,999 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,465 3,393 3,159 Personal Insurance 6,835 6,711 6,228 Total $ 21,618 $ 21,150 $ 20,386 Gross and net written premiums in 2007 increased 1% and 2%, respectively, over 2006. In early 2007, the Company completed the sales of Afianzadora Insurgentes and Mendota. These operations generated combined net written premiums of $74 million in 2007 prior to their sale, compared with combined net written premiums of $265 million in 2006. Adjusting for the impact of that premium volume in both years, the Companys consolidated net written premiums in 2007 increased 3% over 2006. Net written premiums in 2007 in each of the Companys business segments increased 2% over the respective 2006 total. In Business Insurance, growth was concentrated in the Commercial Accounts, Select Accounts and Industry Focused Underwriting markets, primarily driven by strong business retention rates coupled with higher new business volume. In addition, a decline in premiums ceded for catastrophe reinsurance contributed to net written premium growth over 2006 in Business Insurance. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, the increase reflected the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange, strong business volume in construction surety, in Canada and at Lloyds, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes. Adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds also contributed to the growth in net premium volume in 2007. Net written premium growth in the Personal Insurance segment in 2007 was driven by continued strong retention rates and renewal price increases, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota and a decline in new business volume, particularly for coastal coverages. Gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 1% and 4%, respectively, over 2005. The disparity between gross and net written premium growth rates in 2006 was concentrated in the Business Insurance segment and was primarily due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage in the Companys Discover Re subsidiary that resulted in a decline in ceded premiums. Net written premium volume in 2006 was negatively impacted by a higher level of premiums ceded for the cost of property catastrophe reinsurance, whereas net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by $121 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In Business Insurance, net written premium growth in 2006 was driven by strong increases in Target Risk Underwriting, due to significant renewal price increases for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures, and in Industry Focused Underwriting, due to growth in several industry sectors served by this market. That growth was largely offset by a reduction in premium volume for operations in runoff primarily due to the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in the fourth quarter of 2005. Business retention rates remained strong throughout the Business Insurance segment in 2006, and 73 new business volume increased. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, written premium growth in 2006 reflected strong business volume throughout the segment, and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. Net written premium growth in the Personal Insurance segment in 2006 reflected growth in new business volume, renewal price increases and continued strong business retention rates, partially offset by the estimated impact of transitioning to six month policy terms in the second half of the year for a large portion of the Companys multivariate pricing Automobile product, and an increase in ceded premiums for catastrophe reinsurance. Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.40 billion in 2007, $153 million, or 1%, higher than the 2006 total of $12.24 billion. The 2007 total included $546 million of net favorable prior year reserve development and $167 million of catastrophe losses, whereas the 2006 total included $394 million of net favorable prior year reserve development and $103 million of catastrophe losses. The Companys three business segments each experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007. In Business Insurance, net favorable prior year reserve development was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. Net total prior year reserve development in 2007 in the Business Insurance segment included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 primarily reflected better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 occurred in both the Automobile and Homeowners and Other lines of business. Factors contributing to net favorable prior year reserve development in each segment are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was concentrated in the Personal Insurance segment, primarily reflecting better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. The Business Insurance segment also experienced net favorable prior year loss experience in its ongoing operations in 2006, primarily in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business. The favorable development in 2006 was partially offset by increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, which are discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein. There was also unfavorable prior year reserve development in runoff assumed reinsurance business in 2006. Catastrophe losses of $167 million in 2007 primarily resulted from wildfires in California and several wind, rain and hail storms throughout the United States. In 2006, catastrophe losses totaled $103 million, all of which was incurred in the Personal Insurance segment and resulted from several wind, rain, hail and snow storms in the United States throughout the year. Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.24 billion in 2006, $2.68 billion less than the 2005 total of $14.93 billion. The 2006 total included $103 million of catastrophe losses and $394 million of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 total included $2.03 billion of catastrophe losses included in claims and claim adjustment expenses and $325 million of net unfavorable prior year reserve development. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was driven by the factors described above. In 2005, the net unfavorable prior year reserve development was concentrated in the Business Insurance segment and was primarily driven by an increase to asbestos reserves, which was partially offset by other, non asbestos related net favorable prior year reserve development in all three business segments. 74 In 2005, the Companys cost of catastrophes, net of reinsurance and including reinstatement premiums of $121 million and state assessments of $43 million, totaled $2.19 billion, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Reinstatement premiums represent additional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of reinsured losses under certain excess of loss reinsurance treaties and are recorded as a reduction of net written and earned premiums. The majority of catastrophe costs in 2005 were incurred in the Business Insurance segment ($1.41 billion) and in the Personal Insurance segment ($593 million). Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.71 billion in 2007, $367 million, or 11%, higher than the comparable total of $3.34 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting a $213 million increase from the implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents as described in more detail below. The remaining increase was primarily due to growth in business volume in 2007. In 2006, the total of $3.34 billion was $87 million, or 3%, higher than the 2005 total of $3.25 billion, primarily reflecting growth in business volume. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses totaled $3.35 billion in 2007, a decrease of $106 million, or 3%, from the comparable 2006 total of $3.46 billion. The decline primarily reflected the impact of the Companys implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in the following paragraph, which was largely offset by expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company discontinued the use of contingent commissions and implemented a new fixed agent compensation program for all of its personal insurance business. The Company also offered the majority of its agents conducting commercial insurance business the option to switch to this new program. The Companys total payout rate for all agent compensation for 2007 was substantially the same as for 2006; however, the change to the new program created a difference in the timing of commission expense recognition. The cost of the new program is required to be deferred and amortized over the related policy period (generally six to twelve months), whereas the cost of the contingent commission program was not subject to deferred acquisition cost accounting treatment and, therefore, was expensed as incurred. That timing difference resulted in a benefit to income during the 2007 transition year. The impact of this change in 2007 was to lower reported expenses by $376 million in the "General and Administrative Expenses" income statement line, and increase reported expenses by $213 million in the "Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs" income statement line, compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program. General and administrative expenses totaled $3.46 billion in 2006, an increase of $229 million, or 7%, over the comparable 2005 total of $3.23 billion. The increase in 2006 was driven by investments made throughout the Company to support business growth and product development, costs related to the Companys national advertising campaign and legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies (see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). These factors were partially offset by the impact of the favorable resolution of certain prior year state tax matters, certain tax benefits, the absence of catastrophe related state assessments and lower premium tax related expenses. Interest Expense Interest expense of $346 million in 2007 was $22 million higher than the comparable 2006 total of $324 million. Interest expense in 2006 was $38 million higher than in 2005. The increases in both years primarily reflected the impact of the Companys issuance of debt, which is described in more detail in 75 the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section herein. Proceeds from a substantial portion of debt issuances in both 2007 and 2006 were used to fund the redemption and maturity of certain of the Companys indebtedness. Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was 26.0%, 26.5% and 22.8% in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decline in 2007 compared with 2006 reflected an increase in non taxable investment income. The increase in 2006 over 2005 primarily reflected a higher level of pretax income in 2006 due to improved underwriting performance. GAAP Combined Ratios The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 56.6% in 2007 was 0.9 points lower than the comparable 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.5%. The 2007 and 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included benefits of 2.5 points and 1.9 points, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses accounted for 0.7 points and 0.5 points of the 2007 and 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios. Excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development, the 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved by 0.5 points compared with the comparable 2006 ratio, reflecting continuing improvement in current accident year results in several lines of business. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2007 was 0.2 points higher than the comparable 2006 underwriting expense ratio of 30.6%. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described above provided a benefit of 0.8 points to the expense ratios in 2007, which was more than offset by the increases in expenses discussed above. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.5% in 2006 improved by 14.4 points compared with 2005, primarily reflecting the decline in catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses accounted for 0.5 points of the 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, compared with a 10.3 point impact in 2005. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 1.9 point impact from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 1.6 point impact from net unfavorable prior year reserve development. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development improved over the 2005 ratio on the same basis, reflecting improvement in frequency and severity trends in several lines of business. The underwriting expense ratio for 2006 was 1.2 points higher than the underwriting expense ratio in 2005. The changes primarily reflect the impact of the increase in general and administrative expenses described previously. In addition, the 2006 ratio was negatively impacted by a decline in National Accounts fee income, a portion of which is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio in 2005 also included a 0.4 point impact from reinstatement premiums and state assessments. Discontinued Operations In March 2005, the Company and Nuveen Investments jointly announced that the Company would implement a program to divest its 78% equity interest in Nuveen Investments, which constituted the Companys Asset Management segment and was acquired as part of the merger on April 1, 2004. The divestiture was completed through a series of transactions in the second and third quarters of 2005, resulting in net pretax cash proceeds of $2.40 billion. The Company recorded a net operating loss from discontinued operations of $663 million in 2005, consisting primarily of $710 million of tax expense due to the difference between the tax basis and the GAAP carrying value of the Companys investment in Nuveen Investments, partially offset by the Companys share of Nuveen Investments net income prior to divestiture. The Company recorded a pretax gain on disposal of $345 million ($224 million after tax) in 2005. 76 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of the Companys Business Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 11,283 $ 10,876 $ 11,116 Net investment income 2,708 2,538 2,341 Fee income 508 591 663 Other revenues 24 44 64 Total revenues $ 14,523 $ 14,049 $ 14,184 Total claims and expenses $ 10,444 $ 10,509 $ 12,968 Operating income $ 3,015 $ 2,622 $ 1,044 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 57.1 % 60.3 % 81.5 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.7 30.6 28.9 GAAP combined ratio 87.8 % 90.9 % 110.4 % Overview Operating income of $3.02 billion in 2007 was $393 million, or 15%, higher than operating income of $2.62 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting increases in net favorable prior year reserve development and net investment income, the continuation of favorable current accident year results and the resolution of certain tax matters. In addition, results in 2007 benefited from the change to the new fixed agent compensation program that is described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 and 2006 totaled $301 million and $21 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $4 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2006. Operating income of $2.62 billion in 2006 was $1.58 billion higher than operating income of $1.04 billion in 2005, primarily reflecting a decline in catastrophe losses, net favorable prior year reserve development, favorable current accident year results and an increase in net investment income. In 2005, the cost of catastrophes totaled $1.41 billion (including reinstatement premiums of $67 million), resulting from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $21 million in 2006, compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $757 million in 2005 that was primarily driven by an increase in asbestos reserves. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income in 2006. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $11.28 billion in 2007 increased 4% over 2006 earned premiums of $10.88 billion, reflecting the growth in net written premium volume over the prior twelve months in the majority of the markets comprising this segment, driven by strong business retention rates and increases in new business volume, partially offset by minor decreases in renewal price changes. In 2006, earned premiums of $10.88 billion decreased by $240 million, or 2%, compared with 2005, as premium increases in the majority of the segments ongoing operations were more than offset by the continuing decline in other runoff operations earned premiums, including the impact of the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. The Personal Catastrophe Risk operation accounted for 77 $111 million of earned premiums in 2005. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $67 million of reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of the "Consolidated Results of Operations" discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2007 and 2006. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to its service businesses, which include claim and loss prevention services to large companies that choose to self insure a portion of their insurance risks, and claims and policy management services to workers compensation residual market pools. The $83 million and $72 million declines in fee income in 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily resulted from lower serviced premium volume due to the depopulation of workers compensation residual market pools, the impact of lower loss costs on fee income due to workers compensation reforms, primarily in California, and lower new business volume due to increased competition. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2007 of $6.67 billion declined by $180 million, or 3%, from the 2006 total of $6.85 billion, primarily reflecting an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development and continued favorable current accident year results, partially offset by an increase in business volume. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $301 million in 2007, compared with $21 million in 2006. The 2007 total was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. The commercial multi peril and general liability product lines experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial automobile product line experienced better than expected loss development due to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The property product line experienced fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006, as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. Net total prior year reserve development in 2007 included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves. The Companys completion of its annual in depth asbestos claim review in the third quarter of 2007 and its quarterly asbestos reserve reviews throughout the year resulted in no change to the Companys asbestos reserves in 2007. (Refer to the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein for additional discussion.) In 2006, net favorable prior year reserve development in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business was largely offset by increases totaling $275 million to asbestos and environmental reserves and reserve strengthening for assumed reinsurance business in runoff. The commercial multi peril and liability lines of business experienced better than anticipated loss development in 2006 that was attributable to several factors, including improving legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 in the property line of business primarily reflected less "demand surge" inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe 78 and catastrophe losses. "Demand surge" refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. The commercial automobile line of business experienced better than expected loss development which was attributable to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The reserve strengthening in assumed reinsurance was primarily due to changes in projected loss development driven by an unanticipated change in the claim settlement patterns of the underlying casualty exposures. Claims and claim adjustment expenses of $6.85 billion in 2006 were $2.51 billion lower than the 2005 total of $9.36 billion, primarily due to a significant decline in catastrophe losses and net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005. No catastrophe losses were incurred in 2006, whereas 2005 included catastrophe losses of $1.32 billion, nearly all of which resulted from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $21 million in 2006, the components of which are described above. In 2005, net unfavorable prior year reserve development of $757 million was driven by an increase to asbestos reserves of $830 million and reserve strengthening for environmental claims and runoff assumed reinsurance business. Those increases were partially offset by favorable prior year reserve development from lower frequency and severity for both casualty and property related lines of business, which were driven by increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments, coupled with better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. Company initiatives relating to claims handling, which affected claims staffing and workflows, also are believed to have contributed to the emergence of favorable severity experience in 2005. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.74 billion in 2007, 13% higher than the comparable 2006 total of $1.55 billion. The increase reflected the growth in business volume, as well as a $108 million increase from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. In 2006, the amortization of deferred amortization costs of $1.55 billion was slightly lower than the 2005 total of $1.57 billion. General and administrative expenses in 2007 totaled $2.03 billion, 4% lower than the comparable total of $2.10 billion in 2006. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in the first quarter of 2007 resulted in a reduction of $189 million in reported general and administrative expenses in 2007 compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program during those periods. That reduction was partially offset by an increase in expenses related to growth in business volume and continuing expenditures to support business growth and product development. The 2006 total included a provision for legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies. General and administrative expenses in 2006 totaled $2.10 billion, 3% higher than the comparable total of $2.04 billion in 2005. The increase in 2006 primarily reflected the segments expenditures to support business growth and product development, the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign and the legal expenses described above. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.1% in 2007 was 3.2 points lower than the comparable 2006 ratio of 60.3%. In 2007, net favorable prior year reserve development provided a 2.6 point benefit to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 0.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Adjusting for the impact of prior year reserve development in both years, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2007 was 0.8 points better than the comparable 2006 ratio, reflecting continued favorable current accident year results. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2006 improved by 21.2 points compared with the 2005 ratio of 81.5%, primarily due to the absence of catastrophe losses and 79 net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006, compared with net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005. Catastrophe losses accounted for 12.3 points of the 2005 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 provided a 0.2 point benefit to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas net unfavorable prior year reserve development in 2005 accounted for 6.8 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio. Excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development, the 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved 1.9 points over the comparable 2005 ratio, reflecting improvement in frequency and severity trends in several lines of business in 2006. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.7% in 2007, which included a 0.7 point benefit resulting from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, was 0.1 points higher than the 2006 ratio, reflecting the increases in general and administrative expenses described above, and the impact of a decline in fee income. A portion of fee income is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio for 2006 was 1.7 points higher than the 2005 ratio, primarily reflecting the increases in general and administrative expenses described above, and the impact of declines in fee income. Catastrophe related reinstatement premiums of $67 million and catastrophe related state assessments of $18 million added 0.3 points to the 2005 expense ratio. Written Premiums The Business Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Select Accounts $ 2,774 $ 2,733 $ 2,799 Commercial Accounts 2,740 2,613 2,535 National Accounts 1,859 2,169 2,627 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,380 2,279 2,154 Target Risk Underwriting 2,182 2,187 2,040 Specialized Distribution 1,033 1,036 920 Total Business Insurance Core 12,968 13,017 13,075 Business Insurance Other 49 30 378 Total Business Insurance $ 13,017 $ 13,047 $ 13,453 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Select Accounts $ 2,711 $ 2,663 $ 2,722 Commercial Accounts 2,518 2,376 2,330 National Accounts 1,056 1,135 1,230 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,301 2,196 2,080 Target Risk Underwriting 1,665 1,629 1,482 Specialized Distribution 1,015 1,022 908 Total Business Insurance Core 11,266 11,021 10,752 Business Insurance Other 52 25 247 Total Business Insurance $ 11,318 $ 11,046 $ 10,999 In Business Insurance Core, gross written premiums in 2007 declined $49 million, or less than 1%, from the comparable 2006 total, whereas net written premiums increased $245 million, or 2%, compared with 2006. The difference in growth rates between gross and net written premiums in 2007 80 was concentrated in National Accounts and was due to the nature of certain products offered in this market. A significant portion of gross written premiums for products offered by National Accounts is ceded to other insurers; as a result, a decline in gross written premiums does not necessarily have a proportional impact on net written premiums. All markets in Business Insurance Core operations, except National Accounts and Specialized Distribution, recorded net written premium growth in 2007, driven by higher new business volume throughout the majority of markets coupled with continued strong business retention rates, offset in some markets by minor decreases in renewal price changes. Net written premium growth in 2007 also benefited from a reduction in ceded premiums related to catastrophe reinsurance coverage. In Business Insurance Core operations, gross written premiums in 2006 were down slightly from 2005. Net written premiums in 2006, however, increased slightly over 2005. The disparity between gross and net written premium growth rates in 2006 was primarily due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage in the Companys Discover Re subsidiary in National Accounts that resulted in a decline in ceded premiums. For purposes of comparison between 2006 and 2005 net written premium volume, the impact of a higher level of ceded premiums for property catastrophe reinsurance in 2006 was virtually equivalent to the impact of the $67 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums in 2005. Net written premium growth in Business Insurance Core operations in 2006 was primarily concentrated in Target Risk Underwriting and Industry Focused Underwriting, driven by continued strong business retention rates, renewal price increases and higher new business volume throughout the majority of businesses comprising these markets. The decline in National Accounts net written premiums primarily reflected a reduction in premiums related to favorable loss experience on business priced on a loss sensitive basis and lower new business volume, partially offset by the decline in ceded premiums at Discover Re due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage. In Business Insurance Other operations, gross and net written premiums were down significantly from the comparable 2005 totals, reflecting the sale of the Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005 and the intentional non renewal of business in the runoff operations comprising this category. Select Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.71 billion in 2007 grew 2% over 2006. New business volume increased over 2006, due in part to the introduction of the Companys enhanced quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program in 37 states. That platform is expected to be introduced in the remainder of the United States over the next six months. Enhanced marketing efforts and additional products sold to existing customers also contributed to new business growth in 2007. Business retention rates remained strong in 2007. Renewal price changes in this market remained positive in 2007 but were lower than in 2006, as price increases for coastal coverages were partially offset by declines in renewal price changes for non coastal coverages, which continue to be impacted by competitive market conditions. Net written premiums of $2.66 billion in 2006 declined 2% from 2005, primarily reflecting the impact of a reduction in premium volume from certain national small business insurance programs, the majority of which was transferred to the Specialized Distribution market. Excluding the impact of the business transferred, net written premiums increased by approximately 2% in 2006. Business retention rates remained strong and increased over 2005, and focused investments in technology and personnel led to improvement in new business volume over 2005. Renewal price changes for the Select Accounts market in 2006 were consistent with 2005, as modest pricing pressures in non coastal coverages were largely offset by price increases for coastal coverages. Commercial Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.52 billion in 2007 grew 6% over 2006, primarily driven by an increase in new business volume, coupled with continued strong business retention rates. The growth in new business volume reflected the impact of recent product introductions, additional products sold to existing customers and increased marketing efforts. Renewal price changes in this market declined from 2006 and were negative in 2007, primarily reflecting competitive market conditions. Net written premiums of $2.38 billion in 2006 increased 2% over 2005, driven by a strong increase in business retention rates and an improvement in renewal pricing. 81  National Accounts. Net written premiums of $1.06 billion in 2007 declined 7% from 2006, primarily reflecting competitive market conditions that resulted in lower business volume. Net written premiums in 2006 declined by $95 million, or 8%, from 2005, primarily reflecting a reduction in premiums related to favorable loss experience on business priced on a loss sensitive basis and lower new business volume, partially offset by the decline in ceded premiums at Discover Re due to a change in the structure of reinsurance coverage. Industry Focused Underwriting. Net written premiums of $2.30 billion in 2007 increased 5% over 2006. The increase was driven by the Construction business unit, where favorable economic conditions contributed to higher new business volume; the Oil & Gas business unit, due to increased business retention rates and continued strong renewal price changes; and the Public Sector unit, due to an increase in retention rates. In addition, continued strong new business volume and business retention rates in the Agribusiness business unit contributed to premium growth in 2007. Net written premiums in the Technology business unit in 2007 were level with 2006. Net written premiums of $2.20 billion in 2006 increased by 6% over 2005, driven by growth in the Construction and Oil & Gas business units. Favorable economic conditions in these industry sectors, significant increases in business retention rates and continued strong new business volume contributed to the increase in premium volume in 2006 in these two business units. The remaining three business units in this market Technology, Agribusiness and Public Sector all achieved lesser degrees of net written premium growth over 2005. Target Risk Underwriting. Net written premiums of $1.67 billion in 2007 grew 2% over 2006, driven by increases in the Inland Marine and National Property business units. Strong growth in new business volume accounted for the increase in Inland Marine net written premium volume, whereas National Propertys premium volume growth was driven by continued strong business retention rates and a decline in premiums ceded for catastrophe reinsurance coverage, partially offset by a decrease in renewal price changes, which were negative. Growth in these two business units was partially offset by a decline in Excess Casualty net written premiums. Net written premiums of $1.63 billion in 2006 increased by 10% over 2005, driven by strong growth in the National Property and Inland Marine business units. Significant renewal price increases, particularly for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures, and strong business retention rates were the primary factors accounting for net written premium growth in these two business units in 2006. The Ocean Marine business unit also contributed to net written premium growth in 2006, primarily due to a decrease in the amount of business ceded. Specialized Distribution. Net written premiums of $1.02 billion in 2007 declined less than 1% from 2006. The decline was primarily due to premium reductions in the National Programs business unit, driven by reductions in new business volume and business retention rates due to competitive market conditions. These reductions were largely offset by premium growth in the Northland business unit due to strong business retention rates and new business volume. Net written premium volume in 2006 of $1.02 billion increased 13% over 2005, primarily driven by the transfer of certain national small business insurance programs from Select Accounts to the National Programs business unit. In addition, Northland also experienced premium growth in 2006, primarily resulting from higher business retention rates and new business volume in commercial trucking, its primary line of business. In Business Insurance Other, the decline in 2007 and 2006 net premium volume compared with 2005 reflected the impact of business in runoff and the sale of the Companys Personal Catastrophe Risk operation in November 2005. The runoff healthcare, reinsurance and international business acquired in the merger produced minimal written premium volume in 2007, 2006 and 2005. 82 Financial, Professional & International Insurance Results of the Companys Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 3,384 $ 3,321 $ 3,197 Net investment income 494 429 360 Fee income 1 Other revenues 29 26 20 Total revenues $ 3,907 $ 3,776 $ 3,578 Total claims and expenses $ 2,981 $ 2,968 $ 2,961 Operating income $ 675 $ 609 $ 391 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 50.8 % 53.7 % 56.8 % Underwriting expense ratio 36.8 35.3 35.7 GAAP combined ratio 87.6 % 89.0 % 92.5 % Overview In March 2007, the Company completed the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, which accounted for $25 million, $78 million and $78 million of net written premiums for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. Operating income of $675 million in 2007 was $66 million, or 11%, higher than operating income of $609 million in 2006, primarily driven by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development, higher net investment income and favorable current accident year results. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and non catastrophe losses incurred in the United Kingdom related to flooding. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $93 million in 2007, compared with $14 million in 2006. Operating income of $609 million in 2006 increased by $218 million, or 56%, over 2005. The improvement was driven by the absence of catastrophe losses in 2006, an increase in net investment income and growth in business volume, partially offset by a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and an increase in general and administrative expenses. Operating income in 2006 also benefited from favorable tax impacts from businesses outside of the United States, including an $18 million benefit associated with the then pending sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes. No catastrophe losses were incurred in 2006, whereas results in 2005 included $191 million in catastrophe costs. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $14 million in 2006, compared with $72 million in 2005. Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2007 were slightly higher than in 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes in both years, earned premiums in 2007 grew 3% over 2006. Earned premium growth was concentrated in the International group, driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange and growth in business volume over the preceding twelve months. Earned premium growth in 2007 also benefited from adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds. Earned premiums in 2006 increased $124 million, or 4%, over 2005, primarily driven by growth in Bond & Financial Products. In addition, earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $33 million of 83 reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses, primarily in the Companys operations at Lloyds. Earned premium volume in International in 2006 declined slightly from 2005, primarily reflecting the elimination of a one month reporting lag at Lloyds in 2005 that resulted in $48 million of additional earned premiums being included in 2005 results. Also contributing to the decline in earned premiums in International in 2006 was the sale of certain classes of personal lines business at Lloyds in the first quarter of 2005, which had accounted for $43 million of earned premiums in 2005. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of the "Consolidated Results of Operations" discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2007 and 2006. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $1.74 billion in 2007, a decrease of 3% from 2006, primarily reflecting an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development and the impact of the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, partially offset by the increase in business volume, $37 million of non catastrophe losses incurred in the United Kingdom in 2007 related to flooding and the impact of foreign currency rates of exchange. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 totaled $93 million, compared to $14 million in 2006. The net favorable development in 2007 primarily reflected better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including enhanced pricing and underwriting strategies throughout the International operations, and the favorable impact of legal and judicial reforms in Ireland. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2006 totaled $1.79 billion, a decrease of 1% from 2005. The 2006 total included no catastrophe losses and $14 million of net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 total included $158 million of catastrophe losses and $72 million of net favorable prior year reserve development. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2005 was attributable to the better than anticipated favorable impact from changes in underwriting and pricing strategies for International property related exposures. General and administrative expenses totaled $590 million in 2007, an increase of 10% over the 2006 of $536 million. The increase primarily reflected the segments continued expenditures to support business growth and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. The Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in the first quarter of 2007 did not have a material impact on this segment. General and administrative expenses in 2006 increased by 5% over the 2005 total of $509 million. The increase primarily reflected the segments expenditures to support business growth and the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign and legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 50.8% in 2007 was 2.9 points lower than the 2006 ratio of 53.7%. The 2007 ratio included a 2.7 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, compared with a 0.4 point benefit in 2006. Excluding this factor in each year, the 2007 ratio was slightly lower than the 2006 ratio. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2006 was 3.1 points lower than the ratio of 56.8% in 2005. The 2006 ratio included no impact of catastrophe losses and a 0.4 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2005 ratio included a 5.5 point impact from catastrophes and a 2.3 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Excluding those factors in each year, the 2006 ratio was slightly higher than the 2005 ratio. 84 The underwriting expense ratio of 36.8% in 2007 was 1.5 points higher than the comparable 2006 expense ratio, driven by the increase in expenses supporting business growth. The underwriting expense ratio in 2006 improved by 0.4 points compared with 2005, benefiting from the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums and increased business volume. Reinstatement premiums of $33 million increased the 2005 underwriting expense ratio by 0.4 points. Written Premiums Financial, Professional & International Insurance gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,614 $ 2,657 $ 2,531 International 1,423 1,324 1,278 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 4,037 $ 3,981 $ 3,809 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,228 $ 2,255 $ 2,117 International 1,237 1,138 1,042 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,465 $ 3,393 $ 3,159 Gross and net written premiums in 2007 increased 1% and 2%, respectively, over 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, gross and net written premiums increased 3% and 4%, respectively, over 2006. Net written premiums in the Bond & Financial Products group in 2007 increased 1% over 2006 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes), primarily due to increased construction surety business volume resulting from strong economic conditions in the public works sector of the construction industry. For Bond and Financial Products (excluding the surety line of business, for which these are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2007 increased over 2006. Renewal price changes in 2007 were slightly positive but down from 2006, and new business levels declined due in part to competitive market conditions. In the International group, net written premiums in 2007 increased $99 million, or 9%, over 2006, primarily reflecting the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and strong business volume at Lloyds and in Canada. Net written premium volume in the International group in 2007 also benefited from adjustments to prior year premium estimates in the Lloyds operation. In 2007, business retention rates remained strong, new business volume increased over 2006, and renewal price changes, which were negative, in the International group declined slightly from 2006. The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 5% and 7%, respectively, over 2005. Growth in net written premium volume in 2006 resulted from strong construction surety volume in Bond & Financial Products, strong price increases for Southeastern U.S. catastrophe prone exposures in the Companys operations at Lloyds, strong business retention rates and new business volume in International, and the absence of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. The elimination of a reporting lag at the Companys operations at Lloyds resulted in $39 million and $31 million of additional gross and net written premium volume in 2005, respectively. In Bond & Financial Products (excluding the surety line of business, for which these are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2006 remained strong and increased over 2005. Renewal price increases in 2006 also increased over 2005, but new business volume was down slightly from 2005. For International in 2006, business retention rates increased over 2005, renewal price changes increased slightly and new business volume was significantly higher than in 2005. Net written premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment for 2005 were reduced by 85 $33 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, primarily related to the Companys operations at Lloyds. Personal Insurance Results of the Companys Personal Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 6,803 $ 6,563 $ 6,028 Net investment income 559 548 457 Other revenues 90 94 96 Total revenues $ 7,452 $ 7,205 $ 6,581 Total claims and expenses $ 5,996 $ 5,555 $ 5,464 Operating income $ 1,019 $ 1,132 $ 775 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 58.6 % 54.8 % 62.2 % Underwriting expense ratio 28.2 28.3 26.9 GAAP combined ratio 86.8 % 83.1 % 89.1 % Overview In April 2007, the Company completed the sale of its subsidiary, Mendota Insurance Company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Mendakota Insurance Company and Mendota Insurance Agency, Inc. (collectively, Mendota). These subsidiaries primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $49 million, $187 million and $137 million of net written premiums in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. Operating income of $1.02 billion in 2007 was $113 million, or 10%, lower than operating income of $1.13 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and an increase in catastrophe losses, partially offset by growth in business volume and net investment income. In addition, results in 2007 benefited from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program, which is described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 and 2006 totaled $152 million and $359 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $163 million, compared with catastrophe losses of $103 million in 2006. Operating income of $1.13 billion in 2006 was $357 million, or 46%, higher than operating income of $775 million in 2005. Results in 2006 reflected a significant decline in catastrophe losses, strong growth in business volume, continued favorable current accident year loss trends and an increase in net investment income, partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses. Catastrophe losses in 2006 totaled $103 million, compared with a cost of catastrophes of $593 million in 2005. Results in both 2006 and 2005 benefited from significant net favorable prior year reserve development, which totaled $359 million and $360 million, respectively. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $6.80 billion in 2007 grew 4% over 2006, primarily reflecting continued strong business retention rates, increases in renewal price changes, and growth from new business volume over the preceding twelve months, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota in early April 2007. Excluding the impact of Mendota in both years, earned premiums in 2007 increased 6% over 2006. In 2006, earned premiums of $6.56 billion increased 9% over the 2005 total of $6.03 billion, primarily due 86 to significant new business volume, renewal price increases and continued strong business retention rates over the prior twelve months. Earned premiums in 2005 were reduced by $21 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of the "Consolidated Results of Operations" discussion herein for a description of the factors contributing to the increase in the Companys net investment income in 2007 and 2006. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2007 totaled $3.99 billion, an increase of $390 million, or 11%, over 2006, primarily reflecting a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development, an increase in catastrophe losses and higher business volume, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 totaled $152 million, compared with $359 million in 2006. The 2007 total was driven by better than expected automobile loss experience due in part to claim initiatives and fewer than expected late reported homeowners claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of net favorable prior year reserve development in the Homeowners and Other line of business in 2007 was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. The net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was driven by better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. In the Automobile line of business, the improvement in 2006 was partially driven by better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices. These changes included practices which have allowed case reserves to be established more accurately earlier in the claim settlement process, thereby changing historical loss development patterns. In addition, industry and Company initiatives to fight fraud in several states led to a decrease in the total number of claims and a change in historical loss development patterns. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was partially driven by a significant decrease in the number of claims, attributable to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. These changes also resulted in a change in historical loss development patterns. In addition, for 2006, non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other loss experience was favorable due to continued evidence of a less than expected impact from "demand surge," which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. Approximately $100 million of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 resulted from a reduction in loss estimates for catastrophes incurred in 2005, primarily due to lower than expected additional living expense losses related to Hurricane Katrina. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $163 million, $60 million higher than the 2006 total of $103 million. Catastrophe losses in 2007 were primarily the result of wildfires in California and several storms throughout the United States, whereas the 2006 total was driven by several wind, rain, hail and snow storms throughout the year in the United States. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2006 totaled $3.60 billion, a decline of $154 million from the 2005 total of $3.75 billion, primarily reflecting a reduction in catastrophe losses, which was partially offset by the impact of higher business volume in 2006. Catastrophe losses of $103 million in 2006 declined significantly from the 2005 total of $547 million. The 2005 catastrophe losses were primarily the result of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. 87  Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 and 2005 was $359 million and $360 million, respectively. The 2006 total was driven by the factors described above. In 2005, in the Automobile line of business, the improvement was partially driven by better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices. These changes included practices which have allowed case reserves to be established more accurately earlier in the claim settlement process, thereby changing historical loss development patterns. In addition, industry and Company initiatives to fight fraud in several states led to a decrease in the total number of claims in 2005 and a change in historical loss development patterns. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, favorable prior year reserve development in 2005 was partially driven by a significant decrease in the number of claims, attributable to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. These changes also resulted in a change in historical loss development patterns. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.31 billion in 2007, $156 million, or 14%, higher than the comparable 2006 total of $1.15 billion. The increase included $94 million from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in 2007 described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein, as well as growth in business volume, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota. In 2006, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.15 billion, $106 million, or 10%, higher than the comparable 2005 total of $1.05 billion, primarily reflecting growth in business volume. General and administrative expenses totaled $699 million in 2007, a decrease of $105 million, or 13%, from the 2006 total of $804 million. The decrease in expenses in 2007 primarily reflected a decline in commission expenses resulting from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, as well as the impact of the sale of Mendota, which were partially offset by expenses related to increased business volume, and continued investments to support business growth and product development. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in 2007 resulted in a $165 million reduction in reported general and administrative expenses, compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program. General and administrative expenses of $804 million in 2006 were $139 million, or 21%, higher than the 2005 total of $665 million. The increase reflected increased business volume, the segments continued investments to support business growth and product development, legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies, and the segments share of costs associated with the Companys national advertising campaign. The 2005 total included $25 million of catastrophe related assessments. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 58.6% in 2007 was 3.8 points higher than the comparable 2006 ratio of 54.8%, primarily reflecting the decline in net favorable prior year reserve development. The ratio in 2007 included a 2.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, compared with a 5.5 point benefit in 2006. Catastrophe losses accounted for 2.4 points and 1.6 points, respectively, of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratios in 2007 and 2006. Excluding the impact of prior year development and catastrophes in both years, the adjusted 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio was 0.3 points lower than the adjusted 2006 ratio. The 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 54.8% was 7.4 points lower than the comparable 2005 ratio of 62.2%. The 2005 ratio included a 9.3 point impact of catastrophe losses and a 6.0 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Excluding those factors from both years, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2006 was slightly lower than the comparable 2005 ratio, reflecting continued favorable trends in current accident year loss experience in 2006. The underwriting expense ratio of 28.2% in 2007, which included a 1.0 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, was 0.1 points lower than the 2006 88 expense ratio of 28.3%, reflecting the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development. The underwriting expense ratio of 28.3% in 2006 was 1.4 points higher than the 2005 expense ratio of 26.9%, primarily reflecting the impact of the increase in general and administrative expenses in 2006 described above, and a slight increase in commission expenses. In 2005, reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses reduced earned premium volume by $21 million, and catastrophe related assessments from various insurance pools increased taxes, licenses and fees by $25 million. These factors combined to result in a 0.5 point unfavorable impact on the Personal Insurance segments 2005 underwriting expense ratio. Written Premiums The Personal Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by product line were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Automobile $ 3,673 $ 3,731 $ 3,526 Homeowners and Other 3,471 3,280 2,948 Total Personal Insurance $ 7,144 $ 7,011 $ 6,474 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Automobile $ 3,628 $ 3,692 $ 3,477 Homeowners and Other 3,207 3,019 2,751 Total Personal Insurance $ 6,835 $ 6,711 $ 6,228 Gross and net written premiums in 2007 both increased 2% over the respective totals in 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in both years, net written premiums in the Personal Insurance segment in 2007 increased 4% over 2006, driven by continued strong retention rates and increases in renewal price changes, partially offset by a decline in new business volume. Gross and net written premiums in 2006 increased 8% over 2005. Net written premium volume in 2006 reflected increased costs for property catastrophe coverage (which reduces net written premiums), while net written premiums in 2005 were reduced by $21 million of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. In the Automobile line of business, net written premiums in 2007 declined 2%, from 2006. Adjusting for the impact of the sale of Mendota, net written premiums in the Automobile line of business in 2007 increased 2% over 2006. That growth primarily reflected renewal price change increases coupled with continued strong retention rates, partially offset by a decline in new business volume due to competitive market conditions. The Companys multivariate pricing product in the Automobile line of business had been introduced in 39 states and the District of Columbia by the end of 2007. In 2006, net written premium growth of 6% over 2005 in the Automobile line of business primarily reflected a strong increase in new business, partially offset by the impact of transitioning to six month policy terms in the second half of the year for the Companys multivariate pricing product that resulted in a lower amount of reported net written premiums in 2006. Business retention rates in 2006 remained strong and consistent with prior year rates. Renewal price changes in 2006 remained positive but were slightly below those in 2005. New business volume in 2006 was significantly higher than in 2005. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2007 grew 6% over 2006, primarily reflecting renewal price change increases, particularly for coastal coverages, coupled with continued strong retention rates. New business volume in this line of business in 2007 declined from 2006, primarily driven by strategies to reduce exposure to losses on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the 89 United States. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota for both years, net written premiums in the Homeowners and Other line of business in 2007 increased 7% over 2006. Net written premiums in 2006 in this line of business grew 10% over 2005. Business retention rates and new business volume remained strong and increased over 2005. Renewal price changes in 2006 remained positive but declined from 2005. Net written premium volume in this line of business in 2006 also benefited from cross selling initiatives involving the Companys automobile multivariate pricing product. The Personal Insurance segment had approximately 7.2 million and 7.0 million policies in force at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, excluding Mendota in both years. In the Automobile line of business, policies in force at December 31, 2007 increased 1% over the same date in 2006. Policies in force in the Homeowners and Other line of business at December 31, 2007 grew by 3% over the same date in 2006. Interest Expense and Other (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Net loss $ (209 ) $ (163 ) $ (184 ) The $46 million increase in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2007 compared with 2006 was driven by the impact of debt redemptions in each year. The net loss in 2007 included an after tax loss of $25 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. Conversely, the net loss in 2006 was reduced by a $27 million after tax gain realized on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.6% subordinated debentures. After tax interest expense in 2007 totaled $224 million, compared with $207 million in 2006. The net losses in this category for 2007 and 2006 were reduced by the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. The $21 million decline in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2006 compared with 2005 was primarily due to the $27 million after tax gain referred to above. Results in 2006 also reflected the favorable resolution of various prior year federal and state tax matters and the absence of expenses associated with the amortization of discount on forward contracts related to the Companys divestiture of Nuveen Investments that impacted the 2005 loss. These factors were partially offset by incremental interest expense in 2006 due to debt issuances during the year. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While the Company has experienced a decrease in asbestos claims over the past several years, the Company continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from the Companys policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against the Companys policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. The focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including the Company. Bankruptcy proceedings have also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have 90 not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the loss and loss expense payments experienced by the Company. The Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or insolvency. The Company continues to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholders favor and other Company defenses are not successful, the Companys coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Accordingly, although the Company has seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to the Company but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for the Company. As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. On July 6, 2007, the Company announced that it had entered into a settlement to resolve fully all current and future asbestos related coverage claims relating to ACandS. Under the settlement agreement, the Company will contribute $449 million to a trust to be established pursuant to ACandS plan of reorganization. In exchange, the Company will be released from any obligations it has to ACandS for asbestos related claims and will be protected from any such claims by injunctions to be issued in the Companys favor by the federal court overseeing ACandS bankruptcy case. The settlement is subject to a number of contingencies. On August 27, 2007 the bankruptcy court overseeing ACandS bankruptcy approved the settlement and no appeals from that approval were taken. As a result, the Company has placed $449 million into escrow. Upon fulfillment of all contingencies, including final court approval of a plan of reorganization for ACandS and the issuance of the injunctions described above, those funds will be released from escrow to the trust created under ACandS plan of reorganization. The release of the funds to the trust will be recorded as a paid claim and a reduction in claim reserves and, accordingly, there will be no effect on the Companys results of operations. The Company expects to seek to recover approximately $84 million of the $449 million from reinsurers. (Also, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). In addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, by individuals challenging insurers conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos related bodily injuries. The Company anticipates the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, had entered into settlement agreements, which had been approved by the court in connection with the proceedings initiated by TPC in the Johns Manville 91 bankruptcy court. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders, while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders which required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts March 29, 2006 ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating the District Courts order on jurisdictional grounds. The parties obligations under the settlement agreements are contingent upon approval of the bankruptcy courts order. Unless the Second Circuits decision is reversed on further appeal and the bankruptcy courts order is reinstated and becomes final, the settlements will be voided, TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts due under the settlement agreements (other than certain administrative expenses) and the Company intends to litigate the direct action cases vigorously. (For a description of these matters, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder at least annually. In the course of this review, the Company considers, among other factors: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of each policyholders potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a products/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. In the third quarter of 2007, the Company completed its annual in depth asbestos claim review. As in prior years, the 2007 annual review considered active policyholders and litigation cases, including cases challenging the applicability of aggregate limits on asbestos claims. The trends noted at the completion of the 2006 review continued into 2007. The trends include: the emergence of more stable payment trends for a large proportion of policyholders; a decrease in the number of new claims received; a decrease in the number of large asbestos exposures confronting the Company due to additional settlement activity; a decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies; and the absence of new theories of liability or new classes of defendants. The Company believes that these trends indicate a reduction in the volatility associated with the Companys overall asbestos exposure. Nonetheless, there remains a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims. Beginning in 2007 the Company supplemented the existing annual in depth asbestos claim review and the existing quarterly asbestos review process with additional aggregate quarterly reserve analyses. These additional analyses provide the Company with an increased ability to detect and respond to emerging trends in its quarterly reserve estimates. The Companys asbestos reserve review includes an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder category, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions. Developing payment trends among policyholders in the Home Office, Field Office and Assumed and International categories are also analyzed. The Company also reviews its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid activity. For those policyholders for 92 which an estimate of the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and related claim adjustment expense is determined, the Company calculates, by each policy year, a ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, past ceded experience and reinsurance collections. Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves. In 2007, the Home Office and Field Office categories, which account for the vast majority of policyholders with active asbestos related claims, continued to experience an overall reduction in new claim filings. In addition, the number of policyholders tendering asbestos claims for the first time also declined. However, due to the level of trial activity involving impaired individuals, defense and indemnity costs in these categories remain at levels similar to those previously experienced by the Company. The Companys evaluations have not resulted in any data from which a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment may be determined. Payments in the Assumed and International category increased in 2007 mainly as a result of increased commutation activity. Net asbestos losses and expenses paid in 2007 were $317 million, compared with $469 million in 2006. Gross paid losses in 2007 were lower than in 2006 primarily due to installment payments made during 2006 on settlements reached in prior years. Additionally, net paid losses were lower due to increased reinsurance billings in 2007. Approximately 20% in 2007 and 50% in 2006 of total net paid losses related to policyholders with whom the Company previously entered into settlement agreements limiting the Companys liability. The Company categorizes its asbestos reserves as follows: Number of Policyholders Net Asbestos Reserves Total Net Paid (at and for the year ended December 31, $ in millions) 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Policyholders with settlement agreements 22 27 $ 62 $ 235 $ 1,152 $ 879 Home office, field office and other 1,659 1,762 211 197 2,116 2,678 Assumed reinsurance and International 44 37 466 494 Total 1,681 1,789 $ 317 $ 469 $ 3,734 $ 4,051 The policyholders with settlement agreements category includes structured settlements, coverage in place arrangements and, with respect to TPC, Wellington accounts. Reserves are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement. Structured settlements are arrangements under which policyholders and or plaintiffs agree to fixed financial amounts to be paid at scheduled times. Included in this category are TPCs settlements of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims (collectively, the Direct Action Settlement). One of the contingencies of the Direct Action Settlement is affirmance by all appellate courts of the order entered by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court with respect to the Direct Action Settlement. On February 15, 2008 the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating the District Courts order, which had substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts order. Unless the Second Circuits decision is reversed on further appeal and the bankruptcy courts order is reinstated and becomes final, the Direct Action Settlement will be voided, TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts due under the Direct Action Settlement (other than certain administrative expenses) and the Company intends to litigate the direct action cases vigorously. In that event, the settlement funds will be returned to TPCs unallocated asbestos reserve. The Company will not make an adjustment to the level of its asbestos reserves as a result of the Second Circuits decision. (For a description of these matters, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Also included in this category is the Companys announced settlement to resolve fully all current and future asbestos related coverage claims relating to ACandS. The settlement was approved by the bankruptcy court and no appeals from that approval were taken. As a result, pursuant to the settlement, a $449 million payment by the Company has been placed into escrow. Upon fulfillment of all remaining settlement contingencies, which includes final approval of a plan of reorganization for ACandS, those funds will be 93 released from escrow to the asbestos trust to be created under ACandS plan of reorganization. The funds will be released back to the Company if the remaining settlement contingencies are not met. The ACandS matter was included in the home office, field office and other category in 2006. (For a description of this matter, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Coverage in place arrangements represent agreements with major policyholders on specified amounts of coverage to be provided. Payment obligations may be subject to annual maximums and are only made when valid claims are presented. Wellington accounts refer to the 35 defendants that are parties to a 1985 agreement settling certain disputes concerning insurance coverage for their asbestos claims. Many of the aspects of the Wellington agreement are similar to those of coverage in place arrangements in which the parties have agreed on specific amounts of coverage and the terms under which the coverage can be accessed. Home office, field office and other relates to policyholders for which settlement agreements have not been reached, and also includes unallocated IBNR. Policyholders are identified for home office review based upon, among other factors: a combination of past payments and current case reserves in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential "non product" exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In addition to IBNR amounts contained in the reserves for home office and field office policyholders, the Company has established a reserve for further adverse development related to existing policyholders, new claims from policyholders reporting claims for the first time and policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation and direct actions against the Company. Assumed reinsurance exposure primarily consists of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. International is exposed to U.S. asbestos liabilities through participations in excess insurance policies, quota share and excess of loss reinsurance policies, and retrocession policies, underwritten in the London insurance market. Details of exposures under the reinsurance and retrocession policies are identified only when the Company is advised by the cedant. The Company recorded no asbestos reserve additions in 2007 and recorded pretax asbestos reserve additions of $155 million and $830 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Approximately half of the $155 million 2006 pretax reserve adjustment was due to an increase in the projected defense costs for ten policyholders. The majority of the remainder of the reserve adjustment was primarily due to continued litigation activity against smaller, peripheral defendants. The asbestos reserve addition in 2005 resulted, in part, from higher than expected defense costs due to increased trial activity for seriously impaired plaintiffs and prolonged litigation before cases are settled or dismissed. The 2005 reserve addition also considered the January 2006 court decision voiding, on procedural grounds, the previously rendered favorable arbitration decision in the ongoing ACandS litigation (described in more detail in note 15). At December 31, 2007, net asbestos reserves totaled $3.73 billion, compared with $4.05 billion at December 31, 2006. 94  The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 4,777 $ 5,103 $ 4,775 Ceded (726 ) (739 ) (843 ) Net 4,051 4,364 3,932 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct (1 ) 196 833 Ceded 1 (41 ) (3 ) Net 155 830 Accretion of discount: Direct 1 1 Ceded Net 1 1 Losses paid: Direct 423 523 506 Ceded (106 ) (54 ) (107 ) Net 317 469 399 Ending reserves: Direct 4,353 4,777 5,103 Ceded (619 ) (726 ) (739 ) Net $ 3,734 $ 4,051 $ 4,364 See " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by the Company prior to the mid 1980s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and the Company does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. The resolution of environmental exposures by the Company generally occurs by settlement on a policyholder by policyholder basis as opposed to a claim by claim basis. Generally, the Company strives to extinguish any obligations it may have under any policy issued to the policyholder for past, present 95 and future environmental liabilities and extinguish any pending coverage litigation dispute with the policyholder. This form of settlement is commonly referred to as a "buy back" of policies for future environmental liability. In addition, many of the agreements have also extinguished any insurance obligation which the Company may have for other claims, including but not limited to asbestos and other cumulative injury claims. The Company and its policyholders may also agree to settlements which extinguish any future liability arising from known specified sites or claims. These agreements also include appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect the Company. The Companys general purpose in executing these agreements is to reduce the Companys potential environmental exposure and eliminate the risks presented by coverage litigation with the policyholder and related costs. In establishing environmental reserves, the Company evaluates the exposure presented by each policyholder and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any. In the course of this analysis, the Company considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, the Company considers the many variables presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the policyholder at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between the Company and the policyholder, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. Conventional actuarial techniques are not used to estimate these reserves. In its review of environmental reserves, the Company considers: past settlement payments; changing judicial and legislative trends; its reserves for the costs of litigating environmental coverage matters; the potential for policyholders with smaller exposures to be named in new clean up actions for both on and off site waste disposal activities; the potential for adverse development; the potential for additional new claims beyond previous expectations; and the potential higher costs for new settlements. The duration of the Companys investigation and review of these claims and the extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the value of the claim to the Company vary significantly and are dependent upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of the policyholder in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the policyholder and the Company and the willingness of the policyholder and the Company to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute pertaining to these claims. Because these factors vary from claim to claim and policyholder by policyholder, the Company cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However, based upon the Companys experience in resolving these claims, the duration may vary from months to several years. The Company continues to receive notices from policyholders tendering claims for the first time. These policyholders generally present smaller exposures, have fewer sites and are lower tier defendants. Further, in many instances clean up costs have been reduced because regulatory agencies are willing to accept risk based site analyses and more efficient clean up technologies. However, the Company has experienced higher than expected defense and settlement costs driven in part by coverage disputes with its policyholders and adverse judicial developments in certain states regarding the availability of coverage for environmental claims. In addition, while the Company continues to experience a decline in both the number of new policyholders tendering claims for the first time and the number of pending lawsuits between the Company and its policyholders pertaining to coverage for environmental claims, the Company has seen a moderation in the rate of this decline. As a result of these factors, the Company increased its environmental reserve by $185 million in 2007 and $120 million in 2006. In 96 2005, the Company increased its environmental reserves by $30 million, primarily for declaratory judgment litigation costs. Net paid losses in 2007 and 2006 were $113 million and $127 million, respectively. TPC entered into a significant settlement with one policyholder in 2005. TPC executed an agreement with this policyholder which resolved all past, present and future hazardous waste and pollution property damage claims, and all related past and pending bodily injury claims. In 2006, the Company made the final payment related to this settlement and billed a substantial portion of the total settlement to its reinsurers. In addition, TPC and this policyholder entered into a coverage in place agreement which addressed the handling and resolution of all future hazardous waste and pollution bodily injury claims. Under the coverage in place agreement, TPC has no defense obligation, and there is an overall cap with respect to any indemnity obligation that might be owed. At December 31, 2007, approximately 87% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $428 million) was carried in a bulk reserve and included unresolved environmental claims, incurred but not reported environmental claims and the anticipated cost of coverage litigation disputes relating to these claims. The bulk reserve the Company carries is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate volume of in process environmental claims and the Companys experience in resolving those claims. The balance, approximately 13% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $62 million), consists of case reserves. The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 413 $ 494 $ 725 Ceded 5 (69 ) (84 ) Net 418 425 641 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 182 108 17 Ceded 3 12 13 Net 185 120 30 Losses paid: Direct 117 189 248 Ceded (4 ) (62 ) (2 ) Net 113 127 246 Ending reserves: Direct 478 413 494 Ceded 12 5 (69 ) Net $ 490 $ 418 $ 425 UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures described above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2007 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and 97 other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies the Company has issued, the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with the Companys previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against the Company and future developments pertaining to the Companys ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. The Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or insolvency. In addition, uncertainties arise from the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants, although the Company has noted a decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. (Also, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2007 totaled $74.82 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate and 4% in other investments. Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a conservative investment philosophy. The Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2007 totaled $64.92 billion, comprising $64.50 billion of publicly traded fixed maturities and $420 million of private fixed maturities. The weighted average quality ratings of the Companys publicly traded fixed maturity portfolio and private fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2007 were Aa1 and A3, respectively. Included in the fixed maturity portfolio at that date was approximately $1.64 billion of below investment grade securities. During 2007, holdings of tax exempt securities were increased to $38.55 billion to take advantage of their relatively high credit quality and attractive after tax yields. The average effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio, including short term investments, was 4.0 (4.3 excluding short term investments), at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. 98 The following table sets forth the Companys combined fixed maturity investment portfolio rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist: (at December 31, 2007, in millions) Carrying Value Percent of Total Carrying Value Quality Rating: Aaa $ 43,946 67.7 % Aa 11,827 18.2 A 4,343 6.7 Baa 3,163 4.9 Total investment grade 63,279 97.5 Non investment grade 1,641 2.5 Total fixed maturity investments $ 64,920 100.0 % The Company makes investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) that typically have high credit quality, offer good liquidity and are expected to provide an advantage in yield compared to U.S. Treasury securities. The Companys investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches which offer the most favorable return given the risks involved. One significant risk evaluated is prepayment sensitivity. While prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration) and its effect on total return cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the investment process generally favors securities that control this risk within expected interest rate ranges. The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company held CMOs classified as available for sale with a fair value of $3.59 billion and $3.56 billion, respectively. Approximately 31% and 36% of the Companys CMO holdings are guaranteed by or fully collateralized by securities issued by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, the Company held $3.79 billion and $4.36 billion of GNMA, FNMA, FHLMC or FHA mortgage backed pass through securities classified as available for sale at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Virtually all of these securities are rated Aaa. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company held commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) of $935 million and $1.07 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2007, approximately $302 million of these securities, or the loans backing such securities, contain guarantees by the United States Government or a government sponsored enterprise and $26 million were comprised of Canadian non guaranteed securities. The remaining $607 million at December 31, 2007, were comprised of U.S. non guaranteed securities, issued in 2004 and prior years. The average credit rating of these securities was "Aaa." The CMBS portfolio is supported by loans that are diversified across economic sectors and geographical areas. The Company does not believe this portfolio exposes it to a material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of these securities. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $286 million (comprising approximately 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments). The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments which contain loans to borrowers that exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios, high debt to income ratios, low loan documentation (e.g., limited or no verification of income and assets), or other characteristics that are inconsistent with conventional underwriting standards employed by government sponsored mortgage entities. Alternative documentation mortgages are mortgage loans with low loan documentation as described above. The average credit rating on all of these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Aaa" at December 31, 2007. No securities in the residential mortgage portfolio were downgraded in 2007. 99 The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 included securities issued by numerous municipalities with a total carrying value of $38.82 billion. Approximately $14.10 billion, or 36%, of the securities were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. Such insurance generally results in a rating of "Aaa" being assigned by independent ratings agencies to those securities. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities could result in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities from "Aaa" to the underlying rating of the respective security without giving effect to the benefit of insurance. Of the total $14.10 billion of insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio, approximately 96% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 76% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The Companys real estate investments include warehouses and office buildings and other commercial land and properties that are directly owned. The Companys other investments primarily comprise venture capital, through direct ownership and limited partnerships, private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships and trading securities, which are subject to more volatility than the Companys fixed income investments, but historically have provided a higher return. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the carrying value of the Companys other investments was $3.37 billion and $3.40 billion, respectively. The Company does not believe it has a material exposure to sub prime mortgages within its other investments portfolio based on recent information provided by the limited partnerships. The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included as a separate component of accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Fixed maturities $ 768 $ 422 $ 367 Equity securities 15 37 41 Venture capital 17 108 89 Other investments (excluding venture capital) 138 113 (12 ) Unrealized investment gains before tax 938 680 485 Provision for taxes 318 227 158 Net unrealized investment gains at end of year $ 620 $ 453 $ 327 Net pretax unrealized investment gains at December 31, 2007 increased by $258 million over year end 2006, primarily driven by the fixed maturity portfolio. The increase in net unrealized investment gains on fixed maturities was primarily driven by the impact of declining market interest rates on both taxable and tax exempt securities, which were partially offset by an increase in credit spreads and a decrease in unrealized investment gains in the venture capital portfolio, primarily due to sale activities. In May 2007, the Company completed a bundled sale of a substantial portion of its venture capital portfolio, which resulted in the realization of $81 million of previously unrealized net investment gains. Net pretax unrealized investment gains at December 31, 2006 increased by $195 million over year end 2005, primarily concentrated in the fixed maturity portfolio and in other investments carried at fair value. The increase in net unrealized investment gains on fixed maturities was primarily driven by the impact of declining market interest rates on tax exempt securities, which was partially offset by a slight increase in market interest rates on taxable securities. 100 Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Fixed maturities $ 37 $ 7 $ 11 Equity securities 7 4 Real estate 10 Venture capital 16 33 80 Other investments (excluding venture capital) 4 18 Total $ 70 $ 48 $ 109 101  For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $37 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $23 million resulting from the potential to sell various holdings prior to a recovery in market value and $14 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position; $7 million in the equity portfolio when it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period; $10 million in the real estate portfolio, related to the fundamental decline in the financial condition of one real estate development property; and $16 million in the venture capital portfolio on 14 holdings. Three of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period. Nine holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). The remaining two holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $7 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $6 million resulting from the potential to sell various holdings prior to a recovery in market value and $1 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position; $4 million in the equity portfolio when it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period; $33 million in the venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings. Four of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Six holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Four of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. Two of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period; and $4 million in other investments (excluding venture capital). The loss recorded was the result of one mortgage loan refinancing at less favorable terms. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $11 million in the fixed maturities portfolio related to various issuers due to credit risk associated with the issuers deteriorated financial position; $80 million in the venture capital portfolio on 22 holdings. Two of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Fifteen holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Three of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. Two of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period; and $18 million in other investments (excluding venture capital). The losses recorded were the result of an equity partnership and a private stock holding which both experienced fundamental deterioration in their financial position. The specific circumstances that led to the impairments described above did not materially impact other individual investments held during 2007, 2006 or 2005. The Company continually evaluates current developments in the market that have the potential to affect the valuation of the Companys investments. 102 The following table summarizes for all fixed maturities and equity securities available for sale for which fair value is less than 80% of amortized cost or cost at December 31, 2007, the gross unrealized investment loss by length of time those securities have continuously been in an unrealized loss position: Period For Which Fair Value Is Less Than 80% of Amortized Cost (in millions) Less Than 3 Months Greater Than 3 Months, Less Than 6 Months Greater Than 6 Months, Less Than 12 Months Greater Than 12 Months Total Fixed maturities $ 7 $ $ $ $ 7 Equity securities 2 2 Total $ 9 $ $ $ $ 9 Unrealized investment losses as of December 31, 2007 represent less than 1% of the portfolio, and, therefore, any impact on the Companys financial position would not be significant. At December 31, 2007, non investment grade securities comprised 3% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio. Included in those categories at December 31, 2007 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $799 million and a fair value of $762 million, resulting in a net pretax unrealized investment loss of $37 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented approximately 1% of the total amortized cost and approximately 1% of the fair value of the fixed income portfolio at December 31, 2007, and accounted for 12% of the total pretax unrealized investment loss in the fixed income portfolio. Following are the pretax realized losses on investments sold during the year ended December 31, 2007: (in millions) Loss Fair Value Fixed maturities $ 34 $ 1,621 Equity securities 1 31 Other 4 Total $ 35 $ 1,656 Resulting purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Companys ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools, and is generally subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product offerings. After reinsurance is purchased, the Company has limited ability to manage the credit risk to a reinsurer. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. 103 The Companys reinsurance recoverables totaled $15.64 billion at December 31, 2007, a decline of $2.18 billion from year end 2006, primarily reflecting significant collections on reinsurance recoverables, including those related to prior year hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. The following presents the Companys top five reinsurer groups, by reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2007 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of each reinsurer group at February 21, 2007: Reinsurer Group Reinsurance Recoverables A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Reinsurer Swiss Re Group $ 1,266 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Munich Re Group(1) 994 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Berkshire Hathaway Group 591 A++ highest of 16 ratings American International Group(2) 553 A+ second highest of 16 ratings XL Capital Group(3) 511 A third highest of 16 ratings (1)On January 30, 2008, A.M. Best upgraded the financial strength rating of Munich Reinsurance America, Inc. from "A" to "A+." (2)On February 14, 2008, A.M. Best placed the financial strength ratings of "A+" of most of American International Groups domestic property casualty subsidiaries and its 60% majority owned company, Transatlantic Holdings, Inc., under review with negative implications. (3)On January 25, 2008, A.M. Best downgraded the financial strength rating of XL Capital Group to "A" from "A+." At December 31, 2007, $3.0 billion of reinsurance recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, trust agreements and funds held. OUTLOOK The Companys strategic objective is to enhance its position as a consistently profitable market leader and a cost effective provider of property and casualty insurance in the United States and in selected international markets. A variety of factors continue to affect the property and casualty insurance market and the Companys core business outlook for 2008, including competitive conditions in the markets served by the Companys business segments, loss cost trends, interest rate trends and the investment environment. Competition. The Company expects property casualty market conditions to continue to become modestly more competitive in 2008, particularly for new business. The pricing environment for new business generally has less of an impact on underwriting profitability than renewal price changes, particularly in an environment of high retention rates, which the Company has experienced over the past several years. In the Business Insurance and the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments, the Company expects renewal price changes in 2008 will modestly decline from their 2007 levels. In the Personal Insurance segment, the Company expects automobile and homeowners renewal price changes will increase slightly compared to their 2007 levels. These expectations for the pricing environment, when combined with expected modestly increased loss costs, will likely result in somewhat reduced underwriting profitability in 2008 as compared to 2007. Loss Cost Trends. Loss cost trends are primarily driven by changes in claim frequency and claim severity. The industry has generally experienced unprecedented low levels of non catastrophe related claim frequency over the last several years. The Company expects this trend in claim frequency to continue in 2008 in certain lines of business, while claim frequency is expected to increase modestly in other lines of business. The Company also expects severity to increase modestly for non catastrophe related claims. 104 The Company believes that the overall trend of increased frequency and severity of catastrophic Gulf and Atlantic Coast storms experienced in recent years may continue for the foreseeable future, although the trend was not evident in the United States in 2007 and 2006. Given the potential increase in frequency and severity of storms, the Company will continue to reassess its definition of, and exposure to, coastal risks. These risks will be reflected in the pricing and terms and conditions it will offer in coastal areas. Due in part to the increased frequency and severity of the Gulf and Atlantic Coast storms, there has been some disruption in the market for coastal wind insurance, most significantly in personal lines, as insurers, including the Company, have reduced capacity and increased prices. The continued disruption in market conditions, along with the potential for increased frequency and severity of coastal storms, could result in a decrease in the amount of coastal wind coverage that the Company is able or willing to write. In recent periods, the Company has recorded net favorable prior year reserve development, primarily driven by better than expected loss experience in all of the Companys segments for prior loss years. If better than expected loss experience continues, the Company may record additional net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. In that case, the Company may also concurrently revise favorably its current year loss estimates. However, better than expected loss experience may not continue or may reverse, in which case the Company may record no favorable prior year reserve development or net unfavorable prior year reserve development in future periods. In that case, the Company may revise current year loss estimates upward in future periods. Investment Returns. Changes in the general interest rate environment affect the returns available on new investments. While a rising interest rate environment enhances the returns available on new fixed income investments, thereby favorably impacting net investment income, it reduces the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, and therefore, shareholders equity. A decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments, thereby negatively impacting net investment income, but increases the market value of existing investments and therefore, shareholders equity. In 2007, short term and long term interest rates declined. A downward trend in interest rates may continue into 2008. At December 31, 2007, approximately 6% of the Companys invested assets were comprised of equity securities, venture capital investments, private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships and trading securities, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond the Companys control may affect the value of these non fixed income investments and the realization of net investment income. The Company is not able to predict future market conditions or their impact on net investment income. Net investment income is an important contributor to the Companys results of operations, and the Company expects the investment environment to become more challenging in 2008, particularly with respect to its non fixed income investment portfolio. For a discussion of potential risks that could impact the Companys financial condition or results of operations, see Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of 105 potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. The Company also maintains liquidity at the holding company level. At December 31, 2007, total cash, short term invested assets and other readily marketable securities aggregating $1.62 billion were held at the holding company. The assets held at the holding company, combined with other sources of funds available, primarily additional dividends from operating subsidiaries, are sufficient to meet the Companys current liquidity requirements. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. The Company also has the ability to issue securities under its shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission and has access to liquidity through its $1 billion line of credit. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities of continuing operations totaled $5.29 billion, $4.77 billion and $3.59 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Cash flows in each of 2007 and 2006, as compared to the preceding year, reflected higher levels of collected premiums and net investment income, lower claim payments on catastrophe losses, as well as lower runoff claim payments. Cash flows from operations in 2007 and 2006 benefited from significant collections on reinsurance recoverables in both years, including those related to 2005 hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. These factors were partially offset by an increase in tax payments resulting from higher profitability, expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development, and higher interest payments. Cash flows in 2005 reflected an increase in loss and loss adjustment expense payments primarily related to the catastrophe losses incurred during 2005 and 2004, and an increase in tax payments resulting from higher profitability. The Company utilized $11 million, $11 million and $2.00 billion of net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, thereby reducing current regular tax payments by $4 million, $4 million and $698 million, respectively. Net cash flows provided by operating activities for all three years were negatively impacted by payments for asbestos and environmental liabilities, as well as by payments for claims related to the Companys runoff operations. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities of continuing operations totaled $2.53 billion, $3.06 billion and $5.44 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Fixed maturity securities accounted for the majority of investment purchases in all three years. As discussed in more detail in "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings," in 2007, the Company announced that it had entered into a settlement agreement, subject to contingencies, to resolve fully all current and future asbestos related coverage claims relating to ACandS, Inc. As a result, the Company has placed $449 million into escrow. Upon fulfillment of all settlement contingencies, including final court approval of a plan of reorganization for ACandS and the issuance of the injunctions described in "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings," those funds will be released from escrow to the trust created under ACandS plan of reorganization. The Company funded the escrow through the purchase of short term securities. The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid intermediate term taxable U.S. government, corporate and mortgage backed bonds and tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed income investment portfolio generally produces a duration that exceeds the estimated duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The average duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 4.0 at December 31, 2007 and 2006. 106 The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, venture capital and real estate. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity. During 2007, the Company sold a substantial portion of its venture capital investment portfolio. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed income portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed income portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, provide assurance of the Companys ability to fund the payment of claims without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. Sale of Subsidiary. The Companys cash flows in 2005 included $2.40 billion of pretax proceeds (after underwriting fees and transaction costs) from the divestiture of its equity interest in Nuveen Investments. Of this amount, $405 million was received directly by the Companys insurance subsidiaries, and the remainder was received directly by the holding company. Of the proceeds received directly by the holding company, $1.225 billion was contributed to the capital of the Companys insurance subsidiaries, with the remainder available for general corporate purposes. Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities of continuing operations totaled $2.95 billion, $1.59 billion and $473 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 total primarily reflected common share repurchases, the early redemption of debt, the repayment of maturing debt and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by the issuance of debt and proceeds from employee stock option exercises. The 2006 total primarily reflected common share repurchases, the early redemption of debt and the repayment of maturing debt, and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of debt and employee stock option exercises. In 2005, the total primarily reflected the repayment of debt and dividends to shareholders, which were partially offset by the issuance of common stock pursuant to the maturity of equity unit forward contracts and the issuance of debt. Debt Transactions. 2007. In January 2007, the Company redeemed $81 million of 8.47% subordinated debentures originally issued in 1997 and due January 10, 2027. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after January 10, 2007. In January 1997, USF&G Capital II, a business trust, issued $100 million of capital securities, the proceeds of which, along with $3 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by USF&G Corporation and subsequently assumed by the Company after the merger of The St. Paul Companies Inc. (SPC) and Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC). During the period prior to redemption, the Company had repurchased and retired $22 million of the debentures in open market transactions. Upon the Companys redemption of the remaining $81 million of subordinated debentures in January 2007, USF&G Capital II in turn used the proceeds to redeem its remaining capital securities outstanding. USF&G Capital II was then liquidated, and the Company received a $3 million distribution of capital. The Company recorded a $3 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, due to the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date, less the redemption premium paid. In March 2007, the Company issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures due March 15, 2067 for net proceeds of $986 million (after original issue discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions 107 and other expenses). The debentures were issued at a discount, resulting in an effective interest rate of 6.447%. The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 6.25% from the date of issuance to, but excluding, March 15, 2017, payable semi annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15. From and including March 15, 2017, the debentures will bear interest at an annual rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 2.215%, payable quarterly on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year. The Company has the right, on one or more occasions, to defer the payment of interest on the debentures. The Company will not be required to settle deferred interest until it has deferred interest for five consecutive years or, if earlier, made a payment of current interest during a deferral period. The Company may defer interest for up to ten consecutive years without giving rise to an event of default. Deferred interest will accumulate additional interest at an annual rate equal to the annual interest rate then applicable to the debentures. The debentures carry a 60 year final maturity and a scheduled maturity date in year thirty. During the 180 day period ending not more than fifteen and not less than ten business days prior to the scheduled maturity date, the Company is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell enough qualifying capital securities, or at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit repayment of the debentures at the scheduled maturity date. If any debentures remain outstanding after the scheduled maturity date, the unpaid amount will remain outstanding until the Company has raised sufficient proceeds from the sale of qualifying capital securities, or at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit the repayment in full of the debentures. If there are remaining debentures at the final maturity date, the Company is required to redeem the debentures using any source of funds. Qualifying capital securities are securities (other than common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity, and debt exchangeable for preferred equity) which generally are treated by the ratings agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option, in whole or in part, at any time on or after March 15, 2017 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued but unpaid interest. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option prior to March 15, 2017 (a) in whole at any time or in part from time to time or (b) in whole, but not in part, in the event of certain tax or rating agency events relating to the debentures, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed and the applicable make whole amount, in each case plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with the offering of the debentures, the Company entered into a "replacement capital covenant" for the benefit of holders of one or more designated series of the Companys indebtedness (which will initially be the 6.750% senior notes due 2036). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, if the Company redeems the debentures at any time prior to March 15, 2047 it can only do so with the proceeds of securities that are treated by the rating agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. In March 2007, the Companys $500 million, 5.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In April 2007, the Company completed the redemption of its outstanding $893 million, 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes due in 2032 (the notes). The notes were originally issued by Travelers Property Casualty Corp., and the Company assumed certain obligations relating to the notes pursuant to a Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 1, 2004. Each note had a principal amount of $25.00. The redemption price for each note was $25.5625 plus $0.009375 of accrued and unpaid interest. Any note called for redemption could be surrendered for conversion into common stock before the close of business on April 17, 2007. Each note was convertible into 0.4684 shares of common stock of The Travelers Companies, Inc. Holders of $36 million of the notes tendered their certificates in exchange for the issuance of 670,910 of the Companys common shares. The remaining $857 million 108 of notes were redeemed for cash, along with accrued interest to the date of redemption. The Company recorded a $39 million pretax loss ($25 million after tax) in other revenues in the second quarter of 2007 related to the redemption, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining unamortized issuance costs. In May 2007, the Company issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due June 15, 2012 (the 2012 senior notes), $450 million aggregate principal amount of 5.750% senior notes due December 15, 2017 (the 2017 senior notes), and $800 million aggregate principal amount of 6.250% senior notes due June 15, 2037 (the 2037 senior notes). The total net proceeds of these three senior note issuances, after original issuance discounts and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, were approximately $1.47 billion. Interest on each of the senior note issuances is payable semi annually on June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2007. Each series of senior notes is redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed, or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury Rate plus 12.5 basis points for the 2012 senior notes, 15 basis points for the 2017 senior notes and 20 basis points for the 2037 senior notes. The Company applied a portion of the net proceeds of this offering to repay approximately $442 million of senior notes maturing on August 16, 2007 and to repay approximately $42 million of medium term notes maturing in the third quarter of 2007. The remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Prior to applying these proceeds, the Company invested them in investment grade, marketable securities. In August 2007, the Companys $442 million, 5.01% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In 2007, medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $72 million and interest rates ranging from 6.85% to 7.37% matured and were fully paid. 2006. In June 2006, the Company issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2016 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2036. The notes were issued at a discount, resulting in effective interest rates of 6.30% and 6.86%, respectively. Net proceeds from the issuances (after original issue discount and expenses) totaled approximately $786 million, which the Company applied to the redemption of approximately $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures (described in more detail below), $150 million of 6.75% senior notes that matured on November 15, 2006 and $56 million of medium term notes that matured in the second half of the year. In November 2006, the Company redeemed $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures originally issued in 2001 and due October 15, 2050. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after November 13, 2006. In November 2001, St. Paul Capital Trust I, a business trust, issued $575 million of preferred securities, the proceeds of which, along with $18 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by the Company. Upon the Companys redemption of its subordinated debentures in November 2006, St. Paul Capital Trust I in turn used the proceeds to redeem its preferred securities. St. Paul Capital Trust I was then liquidated, and the Company received an $18 million distribution of capital. The Company recorded a $42 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, representing the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date. A portion of the proceeds from the June 2006 debt issuances described above was used to fund this redemption. 2005. In 2005, the Company repaid $815 million of its outstanding debt, primarily comprised of the following: maturities of $238 million of 7.875% senior notes, $79 million of 7.125% senior notes, and $99 million of medium term notes bearing interest rates ranging from 6.44% to 7.09%; and a net repayment of commercial paper borrowings of $395 million. In November 2005, the Company issued 109 $400 million of 5.50% senior notes maturing in December 2015. The majority of the proceeds was used to fund the repayment of commercial paper borrowings described above, with the remainder used for general corporate purposes. In July 2002, concurrent with the issuance of 17.8 million of SPC common shares in a public offering, SPC issued 8.9 million equity units, each having a stated amount of $50, for gross consideration of $442 million. Each equity unit initially consisted of a forward purchase contract for the Companys common stock, which matured in August 2005, and an unsecured $50 senior note of the Company (maturing in 2007). Total annual distributions on the equity units were at the rate of 9.00%, consisting of interest on the note at a rate of 5.25% and fee payments under the forward contract of 3.75%. Holders of the equity units had the opportunity to participate in a required remarketing of the senior note component. The initial remarketing date was May 11, 2005. On that date, the notes were successfully remarketed, and the interest rate on the notes was reset to 5.01%, from 5.25%, effective May 16, 2005. The remarketed notes matured on August 16, 2007. The forward purchase contract required the investor to purchase, for $50, a variable number of shares of the Companys common stock on the settlement date of August 16, 2005. The number of shares purchased was determined based on a formula that considered the average closing price of the Companys common stock on each of 20 consecutive trading days ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the settlement date, in relation to the $24.20 per share price of common stock at the time of the offering. On the August 16, 2005 settlement date, the Company issued 15.2 million common shares and received total proceeds of $442 million. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $742 million, $702 million and $628 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. On February 6, 2008, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.29 per share, payable March 31, 2008 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2008. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Share Repurchases. In May 2006, the Companys board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2 billion of shares of the Companys common stock. In January 2007, the board of directors authorized an additional $3 billion of share repurchase capacity. At December 31, 2007, the remaining repurchase capacity under these authorizations was $932 million. In January 2008, the board of directors authorized an additional $5 billion for share repurchases. Under these authorizations, repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, pursuant to preset trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorizations do not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price, catastrophe losses and other market conditions. The following table summarizes repurchase activity in 2007 and remaining repurchase capacity at December 31, 2007. Quarterly Period Ending Number of shares purchased Cost of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Remaining capacity under share repurchase program March 31, 2007 13,889,773 $ 725,070,439 $ 52.20 $ 3,153,874,729 June 30, 2007 11,390,800 621,499,960 54.56 2,532,374,769 September 30, 2007 11,751,435 600,233,261 51.08 1,932,141,508 December 31, 2007 19,008,213 999,954,837 52.61 932,186,671 Total 56,040,221 $ 2,946,758,497 $ 52.58 $ 932,186,671 Since the inception of the repurchase authorizations in May 2006, the Company has repurchased a cumulative total of 78.8 million shares for a total cost of $4.07 billion, or $51.61 per share, through December 31, 2007. 110  In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company acquired 1.7 million, 1.2 million and 0.8 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (at December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 Debt: Short term $ 649 $ 1,114 Long term 5,577 4,588 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs 16 58 Total debt 6,242 5,760 Preferred shareholders equity 112 129 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 25,834 24,554 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources 670 452 Total shareholders equity 26,616 25,135 Total capitalization $ 32,858 $ 30,895 The increase in shareholders equity in 2007 reflected the Companys net income for the year, partially offset by the impact of common share repurchases and dividends to shareholders. Line of Credit Agreement. The Company maintains an $800 million commercial paper program with back up liquidity consisting of a bank credit agreement. On June 10, 2005, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion, five year revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions. Pursuant to covenants in the credit agreement, the Company must maintain an excess of consolidated net worth over goodwill and other intangible assets of not less than $10 billion at all times. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total consolidated debt to the sum of total consolidated debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and all other covenants related to its respective debt instruments outstanding. Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, the Company has an option to increase the credit available under the facility, no more than once a year, up to a maximum facility amount of $1.5 billion, subject to the satisfaction of a ratings requirement and certain other conditions. There was no amount outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2007. Shelf Registration. In December 2005, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2007 and 2006, the Company issued $2.50 billion and $800 million, respectively, of debt (as described above) under this shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Capacity. At December 31, 2007, the Company had $932 million of capacity remaining under its $5 billion share repurchase program previously approved by the board of directors. In January 2008, the Companys board of directors authorized a $5 billion increase to the program, subject to the factors listed in the "Share Repurchases" section above. 111 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2007, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claims related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2007 that are expected to be settled in cash. The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments, estimated claims and claims related payments (gross of the estimated reinsurance recoveries) and liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, at December 31, 2007 were as follows: 112 Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt(1) Medium term notes $ 170 $ 149 $ 21 $ $ Senior notes 4,550 400 250 250 3,650 Junior subordinated debentures 1,254 1,254 Zero coupon convertible notes 141 141 Private placement notes 18 3 4 11 Total debt principal 6,133 552 416 261 4,904 Interest 5,467 359 672 631 3,805 Total long term debt obligations 11,600 911 1,088 892 8,709 Operating leases(2) 883 203 313 174 193 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 244 112 95 37 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 100 20 40 40 Other purchase commitments(5) 80 27 11 4 38 Total purchase obligations 424 159 146 81 38 Long term unfunded investment commitments(6) 1,598 396 552 409 241 Estimated claims and claims related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 58,750 12,580 16,244 9,780 20,146 Claims from large deductible policies(8) Loss based assessments(9) 221 30 50 24 117 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 189 122 65 2 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 363 158 110 37 58 Total estimated claims and claims related payments 59,523 12,890 16,469 9,843 20,321 Liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits(12) 268 268 Total $ 74,296 $ 14,559 $ 18,836 $ 11,399 $ 29,502 (1)See note 7 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 7. (2)Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3)Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. (4)In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through 2012. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. (5)Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. 113 (6)Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for investments in real estate partnerships, private equities and hedge funds. (7)The amounts in "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in note 4 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance receivables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claims adjustment expense) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance. (See below.) The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance receivables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance receivables $ 14,779 $ 2,942 $ 3,835 $ 2,354 $ 5,648 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expense, net $ 43,971 $ 9,638 $ 12,409 $ 7,426 $ 14,498 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2007. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance receivables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance receivables have been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements.) (8)Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. "Claims from large deductible policies" represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related 114 deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as "contractholder payables" and "contractholder receivables," respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/ receivables $ 6,696 $ 1,730 $ 1,938 $ 1,006 $ 2,022 (9)The amounts in "Loss based assessments" relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. (10)The amounts in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11)The amounts in "Payouts from ceded funds withheld" represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (12)Amounts are included in the consolidated balance sheet as "Other liabilities" and "Deferred tax assets." Some of the Companys liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits have associated temporary differences for which offsetting current or deferred tax assets exist and are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Receivables related to unrecognized tax benefits $ 209 $ $ 209 $ $ The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company was not required to make any contributions to its qualified pension plan in 2007 or 2006 and does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to the qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. 115 Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $4.02 billion is available by the end of 2008 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The Company received $2.73 billion of dividends from its insurance subsidiaries in 2007. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2007, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to agency loans and letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, third party loans related to venture capital investments and various indemnifications related to the sale of business entities to third parties. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment impairments and goodwill impairments. Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement 116 patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing loss reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries, reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The loss reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than currently reserved favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established loss reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; and estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophes occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation, which totaled $4.83 billion at December 31, 2007. While the ongoing review of asbestos claims and associated liabilities and of environmental claims considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." 117  Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2007 2006 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 7,180 $ 12,388 $ 19,568 $ 7,555 $ 12,414 $ 19,969 Property 1,069 963 2,032 1,612 978 2,590 Commercial multi peril 1,860 2,499 4,359 1,940 2,693 4,633 Commercial automobile 2,450 1,640 4,090 2,573 1,801 4,374 Workers compensation 9,373 6,474 15,847 9,142 6,337 15,479 Fidelity and surety 878 1,026 1,904 1,035 838 1,873 Personal automobile 1,466 998 2,464 1,505 1,092 2,597 Homeowners and personal other 545 739 1,284 481 706 1,187 International and other 3,054 3,017 6,071 3,296 3,204 6,500 Property casualty 27,875 29,744 57,619 29,139 30,063 59,202 Accident and health 71 10 81 76 10 86 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 27,946 $ 29,754 $ 57,700 $ 29,215 $ 30,073 $ 59,288 The $1.59 billion decline in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves in 2007 primarily reflected payments related to operations in runoff (including asbestos and environmental payments), prior year hurricane losses, and favorable prior year reserve development. Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril lines and International and other lines in the summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see "Asbestos Claims and Litigation", "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and "Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves". General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics ("components") and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates 118 are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Policies written on a claims made basis require that claims be reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The use of the occurrence form accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, and it is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR claims to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving 119 such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being "low frequency/high severity," while lines without this "large claim" sensitivity are referred to as "high frequency/low severity". Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, high frequency/low severity lines tend to have much greater spread of estimation risk, such that the impact of individual claims are relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimate selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. The merger of TPC and SPC in 2004 resulted in the exposure of each others actuaries and claim departments to different products, data histories, analysis methodologies, claim settlement experts, and more robust data when viewed on a combined basis. This impacted the range of estimates produced by the Companys actuaries, as they reacted to new data, approaches, and sources of expertise to draw upon. It also resulted in additional levels of uncertainty, as past trends (that were a function of past products, past claim handling procedures, past claim departments, and past legal and other experts) may not repeat themselves, as those items affecting the trends change or evolve due to the merger. This also increased the potential for material variation in estimates, as experts can have differing views as to the impact of these frequently evolutionary changes. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends reestablish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty ("risk factors") generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method and in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, resulting in an ultimate claim liability that is different from that being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. 120 The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods.) While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, those evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). 121 The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analysis may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. The above is generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method, which uses the earned premium for the current year multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through analysis of prior experience periods using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is due to the need to evaluate the underlying cause of the trends observed, and may include the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, 122 from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for "construction defect" claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an "occurrence basis," certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a "claims made" basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately, such as asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such "defense within the limits" policies are most common for "claims made" products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the "event" triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving 123 multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also increase the potential recognition lag, i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure. The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved, and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice, and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. Besides the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development methods and S curves for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company utilizes the BF method more heavily than paid and case incurred development. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.6% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 3% to +14% (averaging +5%) for the Company and 4% to +7% (averaging +2%) for the industry overall. The 124 Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development came from certain business that has since been exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 27% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was 2% for 2007, +2% for 2006 and +4% for 2005. The 2007 change was driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2006 change largely resulted from directors and officers and errors and omissions adjustments due to worse than expected large loss activity and additional information from detailed claim reviews, primarily associated with accident years 2002 and 2003. The 2005 change was the net result of numerous adjustments for various components with no individual item being a primary driver. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. 125 Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to +26% (averaging 5%) for the Company and 14% to +7% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development came from certain business that has since been exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Property reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change can be more volatile than the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property due to weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the last half of the year and generally do not clearly resolve until the following year. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 18% for 2007, 11% for 2006 and 34% for 2005. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006 as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. The 2006 change primarily reflected less "demand surge" inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe and catastrophe losses. The 2005 change was primarily due to better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. Such material changes did not materialize in 2007, 2006 or 2005. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property include larger customers. See "Property risk factors" and General liability risk factors," discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 8% to +2% (averaging 4%) for the Company and 2% to +6% (averaging +2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. 126 Commercial multi peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 8% for 2007, 4% for 2006 and 6% for 2005. The 2007 and 2006 changes were attributable to better than expected results due to, among other factors, increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2005 change was the result of increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments, coupled with better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components; bodily injury liability, property damage liability, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment 127  Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to +9% (averaging 1%) for the Company and 2% to +9% (averaging +2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 10% for 2007, 7% for 2006 and 5% for 2005. The 2007 change was due to better than expected loss development, for recent accident years, as a result of more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The 2006 change was due to better than expected loss development, primarily for accident years 2003 through 2005, which was attributable to favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The 2005 change was due to the effect of increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as better than expected results from changes in policy provisions as well as underwriting and pricing criteria, especially for accident year 2004. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. 128 Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules ("inflation") Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 2% to +2% (averaging 0%) for the Company and 2% to +4% (averaging +1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 27% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 0% for 2007, 2006 and 2005. (1)These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment, or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 129 Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards 130 Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 7% to +138% (averaging +21%) for the Company and 9% to +24% (averaging +7%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% for 2007, 5% for 2006 and 0% for 2005. The 2006 change was due to better than expected large loss activity. Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies 131 No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Personal automobile book of business risk factorsc Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to +1% (averaging 4%) for the Company and 6% to 0% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 5% for 2007, 7% for 2006 and 9% for 2005. The decreases in 2007, 2006 and 2005 were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. 132 Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 31% to +3% (averaging 10%) for the Company and 9% to +11% (averaging 3%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by and are based on observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 2% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change can be more volatile than the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property due to weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the last half of the year and generally do not clearly resolve until the following year. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 3% for 2007, 22% for 2006 and +3% for 2005. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of the change was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. The 2006 change was due to lower than expected additional living expenses related to Hurricane Katrina as well as better than expected non catastrophe related frequency and severity, due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims, and continued evidence of a less than expected impact 133 from demand surge. The 2005 change was driven by additional loss development from the 2004 Florida hurricanes. International and other International and other includes products written by International and other products not discussed above. The principal component of "other" claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is primarily runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct), and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to "prove" not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) 134 International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, "claims made" language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 9% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. From time to time, the Company considers the commutation of reinsurance contracts. Changes in estimated reinsurance recoverables and commutation activity could result in additional income statement charges. Total reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2007 declined by $2.18 billion from the same date in 2006, primarily reflecting significant collections on reinsurance recoverables, including those related to prior year hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2007 declined by $85 million from the same date in 2006, generally due to settlement activity and commutations. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business and have the obligation of the participating insurance companies on a joint and several basis supporting these cessions. 135 The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2007 2006 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 10,731 $ 12,837 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (688 ) (773 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 10,043 12,064 Structured settlements 3,615 3,758 Mandatory pools and associations 1,983 1,998 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 15,641 $ 17,820 Investment Valuation and Impairments Valuation of Investments Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities The Company utilizes a nationally recognized pricing service to estimate fair value measurements for over 99% of its fixed maturities and equity securities. The pricing service utilizes market quotations for securities (e.g., public common and preferred and certain U.S. Treasuries) that have quoted prices in active markets. Since many fixed maturities do not trade on a daily basis, the pricing service prepares estimates of fair value measurements for these securities using its proprietary pricing applications which include available relevant market information, benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings, and matrix pricing. Additionally, the pricing service uses an Option Adjusted Spread model to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The pricing service evaluates each asset class on its own based on relevant market information, relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. The market inputs utilized in the pricing evaluation, listed in the approximate order of priority, include: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, and industry and economic events. The extent of the use of each market input depends on the asset class and the market conditions. Depending on the security, the priority of use of inputs may change or some market inputs may not be relevant. Additionally, for some securities additional inputs may be necessary. The nationally recognized pricing service utilized by the Company has indicated that they will only produce an estimate of fair value if there is objectively verifiable information to produce a valuation. If the pricing service discontinues pricing an investment, the Company would be required to produce an estimate of fair value using some of the same methodologies as the pricing service, but would have to make assumptions for market based inputs that are unavailable due to market conditions. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties. As such, the estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold immediately. Additionally, valuation of fixed income investments is more subjective when the markets are illiquid due to the lack of market based inputs, which may increase the potential that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of an investment is not reflective of the price at which an actual transaction would occur. 136  Real Estate Fair value is established at the time of acquisition by internal analysis or external appraisers, using discounted cash flow analyses and other acceptable techniques. The Company had no real estate held for sale at December 31, 2007 or 2006. Other Investments The Companys investment portfolio includes non publicly traded investments, such as venture capital investments (as discussed below), private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships, certain fixed income and equity securities, and stock purchase warrants of a publicly traded company. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for joint ventures and limited partnerships. Certain other private equity investments, including venture capital investments, are reported at estimated fair value. These non publicly traded securities are valued based on factors such as recent financial information, available market data, and management judgment. Venture Capital Investments In May 2007, the Company completed the bundled sale of a substantial portion of its venture capital portfolio. Prior to the sale, these venture capital investments were consolidated in the Companys financial statements. The Companys venture capital investments are generally non publicly traded instruments in early stage companies and, historically, have a holding period of four to seven years. These investments are primarily in the health care, software and computer services, and networking and information technologies infrastructures industries. Certain venture capital investments that are controlled by the Company are consolidated in the Companys financial statements. The underlying investments of these venture capital investments are reported at estimated fair value. The fair value of the venture capital investments is based on an estimate determined by the external fund manager and reviewed by the Company for investments in which there is no public market. The external fund manager reviews such factors as recent filings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth, and other business and market sector fundamental statistics in estimating fair values of specific investments. With respect to the Companys valuation of such non publicly traded venture capital investments, on a quarterly basis, the Companys portfolio managers and the external fund manager review and consider a variety of factors in determining the valuation of the investments and the potential for other than temporary impairments. Factors considered include the following: The investees most recent financing events; An analysis of whether a fundamental deterioration or improvement has occurred; Whether the investees progress has been substantially more or less than expected; Whether or not the valuations have improved or declined significantly in the investees market sector; Whether or not the external fund manager and the Company believe it is probable that the investee will need financing within six months at a lower price than our carrying value; and Whether or not the Company has the ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery, enabling it to receive value equal to or greater than our cost. The quarterly valuation procedures described above are in addition to the portfolio managers ongoing responsibility to frequently monitor developments affecting those invested assets, paying particular attention to events that might give rise to impairment write downs. 137 Investment Impairments The Company recognizes an impairment loss when an invested assets value declines below cost, adjusted for accretion, amortization and previous other than temporary impairments (new cost basis), and the change is deemed to be other than temporary, or if it is determined that the Company will not be able to recover all amounts due pursuant to the issuers contractual obligations prior to sale or maturity. When the Company determines that an invested asset is other than temporarily impaired, the invested asset is written down to fair value, and the amount of the impairment is included in earnings as a realized investment loss. The fair value then becomes the new cost basis of the investment, and any subsequent recoveries in fair value are recognized at disposition. The Company recognizes a realized loss when impairment is deemed to be other than temporary even if a decision to sell an invested asset has not been made. When the Company has decided to sell a temporarily impaired available for sale invested asset and the Company does not expect the fair value of the invested asset to fully recover prior to the expected time of sale, the invested asset is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired in the period in which the decision to sell is made. Factors considered in determining whether a decline is other than temporary include the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, and the Companys ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. The Companys process for reviewing invested assets for impairments during any quarter includes the following: Identification and evaluation of investments that have possible indications of other than temporary impairment, which includes an analysis of investments with gross unrealized investment losses that have fair values less than 80% of cost for six consecutive months or more; Review of portfolio manager(s) recommendations for other than temporary impairments based on the investees current financial condition, liquidity, near term recovery prospects and other factors; Consideration of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or triggers that may cause individual investments to qualify as having other than temporary impairments; and Determination of the status of each analyzed investment as other than temporary or not, with documentation of the rationale for the decision. Sales of Temporarily Impaired Invested Assets The Company may, from time to time, sell invested assets subsequent to the balance sheet date that were considered temporarily impaired at the balance sheet date. Such sales are generally due to events occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date that result in a change in the Companys intent or ability to hold an invested asset. The types of events that may result in a sale include significant changes in the economic facts and circumstances related to the invested asset, significant unforeseen changes in the Companys liquidity needs, or changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment. Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities An investment in a fixed maturity or equity security which is available for sale is impaired if its fair value falls below its cost or new cost basis, and the decline is considered to be other than temporary. A fixed maturity security is other than temporarily impaired if it is probable that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due under the securitys contractual terms or where the Company does not 138 have the intent to hold the security. Equity securities are other than temporarily impaired when it becomes apparent that the Company will not recover its cost over the expected holding period. Further, for securities expected to be sold, an other than temporary impairment charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security to recover prior to the expected date of sale. Additionally, for certain securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (including asset backed securities), the Company periodically updates its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security. If management determines that the fair value of a securitized financial asset is less than its carrying amount and there has been a decrease in the present value of the estimated cash flows since the last revised estimate, considering both timing and amount, then an other than temporary impairment is recognized. Real Estate Investments The carrying value of a real estate property is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The review for impairment includes an estimate of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the real estate property. An impairment loss is recognized if the expected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the real estate property. The impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Other Investments Mortgage Loans A mortgage loan is considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect principal and interest amounts due. For mortgage loans that are determined to be impaired, a reserve is established for the difference between the amortized cost and fair market value of the underlying collateral. In estimating fair value, the Company uses interest rates reflecting the current real estate financing market returns. Impaired loans were not material at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Venture Capital Investments and Non Publicly Traded Investments Venture capital investments and non publicly traded investments are reviewed quarterly for other than temporary impairment by the external fund manager and the Companys portfolio managers. An impairment loss is recognized if, based on the specific facts and circumstances, it is probable that the Company will not be able to recover all of the cost of an individual holding. Other Investments Excluding Venture Capital Investments Included in other investments are partnership investments and investments in limited liability companies (together "partnerships") that generally report investments on their balance sheet at fair value. The partnership investments include private equity investments and investments in hedge funds. The managers/general partners of the private equity partnerships provide financial information quarterly which is generally available to investors, including the Company, within three to six months following the date of the reporting period. The hedge funds provide financial information monthly which is available to investors within one month following the date of the reporting period. The Company reviews these investments for impairment no less frequently than quarterly and monitors the performance throughout the year through discussions with the managers/general partners. If the Company becomes aware of an other than temporary impairment of a partnership investment at the balance sheet date prior to receiving financial information, it will record an impairment charge consistent with the Companys impairment policy. 139 Intangible Impairments The Company performs a review on at least an annual basis, of goodwill held by its reporting units, which are the Companys three operating and reportable segments: Business Insurance, Financial, Professional & International Insurance and Personal Insurance. The impairment test of goodwill is a two step process. The first step is to identify any potential impairment using a multiple of earnings approach to estimate the fair value of the reporting units. The fair values of the reporting units are then compared to their carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying amounts of the reporting units exceed their fair value, a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. The Companys review did not result in an impairment of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Other indefinite lived intangible assets held by the Company are also reviewed for impairment on at least an annual basis. The classification of the asset as indefinite lived is reassessed and an impairment is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. The Companys review did not result in an impairment of indefinite lived intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A Risk Factors." FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. The Company is currently required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a proposed release for comment that would allow U.S. domestic companies the option to prepare their financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), instead of in accordance with GAAP. The SEC is considering comments it has received and may make a further proposal during 2008. The SEC has also indicated that it is considering whether to require U.S. domestic companies to prepare their financial statements in accordance with IFRS; however, the Company would not expect any such requirement to take effect for at least a number of years. The IASB is currently evaluating IFRS as it applies to insurance companies. Among other things, the IASB is considering methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by GAAP. The FASB and the IASB are also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. The Company is not able to predict whether it will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS) may impact the Companys financial statements in the future. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Specifically, earnings guidance, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans and statements about the potential impact of the recent disruption in the sub prime and other financial markets on the Companys investment portfolio and 140 underwriting results are forward looking, and the Company may make forward looking statements about its results of operations (including, among others, premium volume, net and operating income, investment income, return on equity and combined ratio), and financial position (including, among others, invested assets and liquidity); the sufficiency of asbestos and other reserves (including, among others, asbestos claim payment patterns); the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; investment performance; market conditions; and strategic initiatives. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors". and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2007. The Companys market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $74.82 billion and $72.27 billion, respectively, of which 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 6.5% and 6.0%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $286 million (comprising approximately 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments). The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments which contain loans to borrowers that exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios, high debt to income ratios, low loan documentation (e.g., limited or no verification of income and assets), or other characteristics that are inconsistent with conventional underwriting standards employed by government sponsored mortgage entities. Alternative documentation mortgages are mortgage loans with low loan documentation as described above. The average credit rating on all of these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Aaa" at December 31, 2007. No securities in the residential mortgage portfolio were downgraded in 2007. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 included securities issued by numerous municipalities with a total carrying value of $38.82 billion. Approximately $14.10 billion, or 36%, of the securities were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. Such insurance generally results in a rating of "Aaa" being assigned by independent ratings agencies to those securities. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities could result in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities 141 from "Aaa" to the underlying rating of the respective security without giving effect to the benefit of insurance. Of the total $14.10 billion of insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio, approximately 96% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 76% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 7 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Managements Discussion and Analysis. The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.9% and 2.8% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 2.2% of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2007 or 2006. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 142 For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2007 and 2006 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.5 billion and $2.3 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. As a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the Companys consolidated balance sheet, primarily claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the Companys exposure to foreign currencies. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $485 million and $438 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 143  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2007. The Companys market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $74.82 billion and $72.27 billion, respectively, of which 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 6.5% and 6.0%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $286 million (comprising approximately 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments). The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments which contain loans to borrowers that exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios, high debt to income ratios, low loan documentation (e.g., limited or no verification of income and assets), or other characteristics that are inconsistent with conventional underwriting standards employed by government sponsored mortgage entities. Alternative documentation mortgages are mortgage loans with low loan documentation as described above. The average credit rating on all of these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Aaa" at December 31, 2007. No securities in the residential mortgage portfolio were downgraded in 2007. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 included securities issued by numerous municipalities with a total carrying value of $38.82 billion. Approximately $14.10 billion, or 36%, of the securities were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. Such insurance generally results in a rating of "Aaa" being assigned by independent ratings agencies to those securities. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities could result in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities 141 from "Aaa" to the underlying rating of the respective security without giving effect to the benefit of insurance. Of the total $14.10 billion of insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio, approximately 96% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 76% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 7 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Managements Discussion and Analysis. The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.9% and 2.8% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 2.2% of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2007 or 2006. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 142 For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2007 and 2006 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.5 billion and $2.3 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. As a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the Companys consolidated balance sheet, primarily claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the Companys exposure to foreign currencies. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $485 million and $438 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 143  
 
