Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 23 Table of Contents Operations") are affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in the underlying insurance contract (e.g., claims made versus occurrence), claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of the occurrence date for a claim, and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the insured event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process. The Company derives estimates for unreported claims and development on reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of loss development by accident year for each type of exposure and business unit. Similarly, the Company derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business and type of exposure. For a description of the Companys reserving methods for asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and " Environmental Claims and Litigation." Discounting Included in the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves in the consolidated balance sheet are certain reserves discounted to the present value of estimated future payments. The liabilities for losses for most long term disability payments under workers compensation insurance and workers compensation excess insurance, which totaled $2.25 billion and $2.09 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were discounted using a rate of 5% at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Reserves totaling $33 million for certain assumed reinsurance business at December 31, 2007 were discounted using a rate of 7%. No reserves for such assumed reinsurance business were discounted at December 31, 2008. Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Development Table The table that follows sets forth the year end reserves from 1998 through 2008 and the subsequent changes in those reserves, presented on a historical basis. The original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and reestimated reserves in the table for the years 1998 through 2003 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of SPC in 2004. The table includes SPC reserves beginning at December 31, 2004. In addition, the original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and reestimated reserves in the table for the years 1998 to 2000 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of Northland and Commercial Guaranty Casualty. Beginning in 2001, the table includes the reserve activity of Northland and Commercial Guaranty Casualty. The data in the table is presented in accordance with reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Care must be taken to avoid misinterpretation by those unfamiliar with this information or familiar with other data commonly reported by the insurance industry. The data in the table is not accident year data, but rather a display of 1998 to 2008 year end reserves and the subsequent changes in those reserves. For instance, the "cumulative deficiency (redundancy)" shown in the table for each year represents the aggregate amount by which original estimates of reserves as of that year end have changed in subsequent years. Accordingly, the cumulative deficiency for a year relates only to reserves at that year end and those amounts are not additive. Expressed another way, if the original reserves at the end of 1998 included $4 million for a loss that is finally paid in 2005 for $5 million, the $1 million deficiency (the excess of the actual payment of $5 million over the original estimate of $4 million) 24 Table of Contents would be included in the cumulative deficiencies in each of the years 1998 to 2004 shown in the accompanying table. Various factors may distort the re estimated reserves and cumulative deficiency or redundancy shown in the table. For example, a substantial portion of the cumulative deficiencies shown in the table arise from claims on policies written prior to the mid 1980s involving liability exposures such as asbestos and environmental claims. In the post 1984 period, the Company has developed more stringent underwriting standards and policy exclusions and has significantly contracted or terminated the writing of these risks. See "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and " Environmental Claims and Litigation." General conditions and trends that have affected the development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily recur in the future. Other factors that affect the data in the table include the discounting of certain reserves (as discussed above) and the use of retrospectively rated insurance policies. For example, workers compensation indemnity reserves (tabular reserves) are discounted to reflect the time value of money. Apparent deficiencies will continue to occur as the discount on these workers compensation reserves is accreted at the appropriate interest rates. Also, a portion of National Accounts business is underwritten with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the ultimate loss experience is primarily borne by the insured. For this business, increases in loss experience result in an increase in reserves and an offsetting increase in amounts recoverable from insureds. Likewise, decreases in loss experience result in a decrease in reserves and an offsetting decrease in amounts recoverable from these insureds. The amounts recoverable on these retrospectively rated policies mitigate the impact of the cumulative deficiencies or redundancies on the Companys earnings but are not reflected in the table. Because of these and other factors, it is difficult to develop a meaningful extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in loss reserves from the data in the table. 25 Table of Contents (at December 31, in millions) 1998 1999 2000 2001(a) 2002(a) 2003(a) 2004(a)(b)(c) 2005(a)(b)(c) 2006(a)(b)(c) 2007(a)(b)(c) 2008(a)(b)(c) Reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense originally estimated $ 20,763 $ 19,983 $ 19,435 $ 20,197 $ 23,268 $ 24,055 $ 41,446 $ 42,895 $ 42,844 $ 43,098 $ 41,312 Cumulative amounts paid as of One year later 4,159 4,082 4,374 5,018 5,170 4,651 8,871 8,632 7,417 8,146 Two years later 6,879 6,957 7,517 8,745 8,319 8,686 14,666 13,837 13,181 Three years later 9,006 9,324 10,218 11,149 11,312 11,541 18,733 18,466 Four years later 10,809 11,493 12,000 13,402 13,548 13,708 22,514 Five years later 12,565 12,911 13,603 15,115 15,229 15,574 Six years later 13,647 14,172 14,958 16,473 16,836 Seven years later 14,697 15,301 16,063 17,877 Eight years later 15,681 16,206 17,283 Nine years later 16,480 17,194 Ten years later 17,398 Reserves reestimated as of One year later 20,521 19,736 19,394 23,228 23,658 24,222 41,706 42,466 42,172 41,373 Two years later 20,172 19,600 22,233 24,083 24,592 25,272 42,565 42,311 40,837 Three years later 19,975 22,302 22,778 25,062 25,553 26,042 42,940 41,692 Four years later 22,489 22,612 23,871 25,953 26,288 26,501 43,148 Five years later 22,593 23,591 24,872 26,670 26,731 26,803 Six years later 23,492 24,559 25,521 27,179 27,055 Seven years later 24,446 25,114 26,039 27,556 Eight years later 24,908 25,664 26,364 Nine years later 25,435 25,917 Ten years later 25,693 Cumulative deficiency (redundancy)(a)(b) 4,930 5,934 6,929 7,359 3,787 2,748 1,702 (1,203 ) (2,007 ) (1,725 ) Gross liability end of year $ 29,411 $ 28,854 $ 28,312 $ 30,617 $ 33,628 $ 34,474 $ 58,984 $ 61,007 $ 59,202 $ 57,619 $ 54,646 Reinsurance recoverables 8,648 8,871 8,877 10,420 10,360 10,419 17,538 18,112 16,358 14,521 13,334 Net liability end of year $ 20,763 $ 19,983 $ 19,435 $ 20,197 $ 23,268 $ 24,055 $ 41,446 $ 42,895 $ 42,844 $ 43,098 $ 41,312 Gross reestimated liability latest $ 34,961 $ 35,977 $ 37,245 $ 40,006 $ 38,865 $ 37,829 $ 61,036 $ 59,999 $ 56,911 $ 55,967 Reestimated reinsurance recoverables latest 9,268 10,060 10,881 12,450 11,810 11,026 17,888 18,307 16,074 14,594 Net reestimated liability latest $ 25,693 $ 25,917 $ 26,364 $ 27,556 $ 27,055 $ 26,803 $ 43,148 $ 41,692 $ 40,837 $ 41,373 Gross cumulative deficiency (redundancy) $ 5,550 $ 7,123 $ 8,933 $ 9,389 $ 5,237 $ 3,355 $ 2,052 $ (1,008 ) $ (2,291 ) $ (1,652 ) Included in the cumulative deficiency (redundancy) by year is the following impact of unfavorable prior year reserve development related to asbestos and environmental claims and claim adjustment expenses, in millions: Asbestos 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Gross $ 5,974 $ 5,846 $ 5,659 $ 5,377 $ 1,717 $ 1,692 $ 1,100 $ 266 $ 69 $ 70 Net $ 4,385 $ 4,328 $ 4,278 $ 4,091 $ 1,146 $ 1,122 $ 1,057 $ 226 $ 70 $ 70 Environmental 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Gross $ 1,069 $ 930 $ 855 $ 798 $ 644 $ 585 $ 392 $ 375 $ 267 $ 85 Net $ 945 $ 888 $ 824 $ 780 $ 630 $ 571 $ 420 $ 390 $ 270 $ 85 (a)Includes reserves of The Northland Company and its subsidiaries and Commercial Guaranty Lloyds Insurance Company, which were acquired from Citigroup on October 1, 2001. Also includes reserves of Commercial Guaranty Casualty Insurance Company, which was contributed to TPC by Citigroup on October 3, 2001. At December 31, 2001, these gross reserves were $867 million, and net reserves were $633 million. (b)For years prior to 2004, excludes SPC reserves, which were acquired on April 1, 2004. Accordingly, the reserve development (net reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense reestimated as of subsequent years less net reserves recorded at the end of the year, as originally estimated) for years prior to 2004 relates only to losses recorded by TPC and does not include reserve development recorded by SPC. For 2004 and subsequent years, includes SPC reserves and subsequent development recorded by SPC. At December 31, 2004, SPC gross reserves were $23,274 million, and net reserves were $15,959 million. (c)In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica Holdings Limited (Unionamerica), which comprised its United Kingdom (U.K.) based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. (Unionamerica was acquired in 2004 as part of the merger of SPC and TPC.) Immediately before the sale, the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves of Unionamerica totaled $790 million. As a result of the sale, those obligations ceased being the responsibility of the Company and its affiliates. The sale is reflected in the table as a reduction in December 31, 2008 net reserves of $790 million and as a $790 million increase in paid losses for each of the years 2004 through 2007 to reflect the transfer (payment) of the reserves to the buyer, resulting in no impact to incurred losses. 26  Table of Contents Reserves on Statutory Accounting Basis At December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (net of reinsurance) shown in the preceding table, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP reserves), were $5 million higher, $30 million higher and $104 million lower, respectively, than those reported in the Companys respective annual reports filed with insurance regulators, which are prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices (statutory reserves). The differences between GAAP and statutory reserves are primarily due to the differences in GAAP and statutory accounting for two items, (1) fees associated with billing of required reimbursements under large deductible business, and (2) the accounting for retroactive reinsurance. For large deductible business, the Company pays the deductible portion of a casualty insurance claim and then seeks reimbursement from the insured, plus a fee. This fee is reported as fee income for GAAP reporting, but as an offset to claim expenses paid for statutory reporting. Retroactive reinsurance balances result from reinsurance placed to cover losses on insured events occurring prior to the inception of a reinsurance contract. For GAAP reporting, retroactive reinsurance balances are included in reinsurance recoverables and result in lower net reserve amounts. Statutory accounting practices require retroactive reinsurance balances to be recorded in other liabilities as contra liabilities rather than in loss reserves. Asbestos and Environmental Claims Asbestos and environmental claims are segregated from other claims and are handled separately by the Companys Special Liability Group, a separate unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals. For additional information on asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and " Environmental Claims and Litigation." INTERCOMPANY REINSURANCE POOLING ARRANGEMENTS Most of the Companys insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling arrangement. Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pools capital and surplus rather than just on its own capital and surplus. Under such arrangements, the members share substantially all insurance business that is written and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses. On October 1, 2007, retroactive to January 1, 2007, the Northland Pool was commuted and terminated. Four members of the former Northland Pool, consisting of Northland Insurance Company, Northfield Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company and American Equity Specialty Insurance Company, became members of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool. The fifth member of the former Northland Pool, American Equity Insurance Company, became a 100% reinsured affiliate of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool. Additionally, the individual 100% quota share reinsurance agreements for three former 100% reinsured affiliated companies of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool (St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company and Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc.) were commuted and terminated. These three companies also became members of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool. All of these transactions were retroactive to January 1, 2007. In addition, on October 1, 2007, Discover Reinsurance Company was merged into The Travelers Indemnity Company. RATINGS Ratings are an important factor in setting the Companys competitive position in the insurance industry. The Company receives ratings from the following major rating agencies: A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) and Standard & Poors Corp. 27 Table of Contents (S&P). Rating agencies typically issue two types of ratings: claims paying (or financial strength) ratings which assess an insurers ability to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and debt ratings which assess a companys prospects for repaying its debts and assist lenders in setting interest rates and terms for a companys short and long term borrowing needs. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agency. Each agencys rating should be evaluated independently of any other agencys rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency to rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to evaluate a companys overall financial strength. The ratings issued on the Company or its subsidiaries by any of these agencies are announced publicly and are available on the Companys website and from the agencies. The Companys insurance operations could be negatively impacted by a downgrade in one or more of the Companys claims paying or debt ratings. If this were to occur, the Company could experience a reduced demand for certain products in certain markets. Additionally, the Companys ability to access the capital markets could be impacted by a downgrade in one or more of the Companys debt ratings. If this were to occur, the Company could incur higher borrowing costs. Claims Paying Ratings The following table summarizes the current claims paying (or financial strength) ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers C&S Co. of America, Travelers Personal single state companies, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd., Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada and Travelers Insurance Company Limited as of February 19, 2009. The table also presents S&Ps Lloyds Syndicate Assessment rating for Travelers Syndicate Management Syndicate 5000. The table presents the position of each rating in the applicable agencys rating scale. A.M. Best Moodys S&P Fitch Travelers Reinsurance Pool(a)(b) A+ (2nd of 16) Aa2 (3rd of 21 ) AA (4th of 21 ) AA (3rd of 24 ) Travelers C&S Co. of America A+ (2nd of 16) Aa2 (3rd of 21 ) AA (4th of 21 ) AA (3rd of 24 ) First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co. A (4th of 16) AA (3rd of 24 ) First Trenton Indemnity Company A (3rd of 16) AA (3rd of 24 ) The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts A (3rd of 16) Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd. A+ (2nd of 16) Aa2 (3rd of 21 ) AA (4th of 21 ) Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada A (3rd of 16) Travelers Insurance Company Limited A (3rd of 16) Travelers Syndicate Management Limited Syndicate 5000 3 (9 of 15 ) (a)The Travelers Reinsurance Pool consists of: The Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company of America, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America, Travelers Commercial Casualty Company, TravCo Insurance Company, The Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, Northland Insurance Company, Northfield Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company, American Equity Specialty Insurance Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, The Automobile Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America, Farmington Casualty Company, Travelers Commercial Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Insurance Company, Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company, Athena Assurance Company, St. Paul Protective Insurance Company, St. Paul Medical Liability Insurance Company, St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company, Fidelity and 28 Table of Contents Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc., Discover Property & Casualty Insurance Company, Discover Specialty Insurance Company and United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company. (b)The following affiliated companies are 100% reinsured by one of the pool participants noted in (a) above: Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company, Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company, American Equity Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, St. Paul Fire and Casualty Insurance Company, The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company and Travelers Lloyds of Texas Insurance Company. In addition, at December 31, 2008, Seaboard Surety Company, an affiliated company, was 90% reinsured by The Travelers Indemnity Company, one of the pool participants noted in (a) above. Effective January 1, 2009, Seaboard Surety Company was merged into Travelers C&S Co. of America. Debt Ratings The following table summarizes the current debt, preferred stock and commercial paper ratings of the Company and its subsidiaries as of February 19, 2009. The table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agencys rating scale. A.M. Best Moodys S&P Fitch Senior debt a (7th of 22) A2 (6th of 21) A (7th of 22) A (6th of 24) Subordinated debt bbb+ (8th of 22) A3 (7th of 21) BBB+ (8th of 22) A (7th of 24) Junior subordinated debt bbb (9th of 22) A3 (7th of 21) BBB (9th of 22) A (7th of 24) Trust preferred securities bbb (9th of 22) A3 (7th of 21) BBB (9th of 22) A (7th of 24) Preferred stock bbb (9th of 22) Baa1 (8th of 21) BBB (9th of 22) Commercial paper AMB 1 (2nd of 6) P 1 (1st of 3) A 2 (3rd of 10) F 1 (2nd of 7) Rating Agency Actions The following rating agency actions were taken with respect to the Company in 2008 and through February 19, 2009: On March 17, 2008, Fitch affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable. On May 7, 2008, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of "A" for Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada. The outlook is stable. On June 3, 2008, A.M. Best affirmed all of its ratings for the Companys debt, preferred stock and commercial paper listed in the foregoing table. Concurrently, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers C&S Company of America, First Floridian Auto and Home Insurance Company, First Trenton Indemnity Company, The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts and Travelers C&S Company of Europe, Ltd. listed in the foregoing table. The outlook is stable. On June 6, 2008, Moodys upgraded the ratings of the Company (senior unsecured debt to "A2" from "A3," commercial paper to "P 1" from "P 2") and its subsidiaries (including Travelers Indemnity Company and its pooled or otherwise supported affiliates insurance financial strength to "Aa2" from "Aa3"). The outlook is stable. On August 14, 2008, Standard & Poors affirmed the financial strength rating of "3 " for Travelers Syndicate Management Limited Syndicate 5000. The outlook is stable. On November 17, 2008, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of "A" for Travelers Insurance Company Limited. The outlook remains stable. On February 13, 2009, Fitch affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable. 29 Table of Contents INVESTMENT OPERATIONS A significant majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid intermediate term taxable U.S. government bonds, tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds, and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage backed bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed income investment portfolio generally produces a duration that modestly exceeds the estimated duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed income portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed income portfolio exceeds the present value of the net insurance liabilities, plus the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds provides assurance of the Companys ability to fund the payment of claims without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, venture capital (through direct ownership and limited partnerships), private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, real estate and real estate partnerships, hedge funds, mortgage loans and trading securities. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity. See note 3 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Companys investment portfolio. DERIVATIVES See notes 1 and 3 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the policies and transactions related to the Companys derivative financial instruments. REGULATION State and Federal Regulation TRVs insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the various states and jurisdictions in which they transact business. The extent of regulation varies, but generally derives from statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to a department of insurance in each state. The regulation, supervision and administration relate, among other things, to standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on investments, premium rates, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, reserves and provisions for unearned premiums, losses and other obligations, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, approval of policy forms and the regulation of market conduct, including the use of credit information in underwriting as well as other underwriting and claims practices. In addition, many states have enacted variations of competitive ratemaking laws, which allow insurers to set certain premium rates for certain classes of insurance without having to obtain the prior approval of the state insurance department. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the financial condition and market conduct of insurance companies and require the filing of financial and other reports on a quarterly and annual basis. TRVs insurance subsidiaries are collectively licensed to 30 Table of Contents transact insurance business in all U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, Bermuda and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends. TRVs principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to TRVs subsidiaries require notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, that together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which TRVs insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Rate and Rule Approvals. TRVs insurance subsidiaries are subject to each states laws and regulations regarding rate and rule approvals. The applicable laws and regulations are used by states to establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory, or used to engage in unfair price competition. An insurers ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective states requirements. Requirements for Exiting Geographic Markets and or Canceling or Nonrenewing Policies. Several states have laws and regulations which may impact the timing and or the ability of an insurer to either discontinue or substantially reduce its writings in that state. These laws and regulations typically require prior notice, and in some instances insurance department approval, prior to discontinuing a line of business or withdrawing from that state, and they allow insurers to cancel or non renew certain policies only for certain specified reasons. Assessments for Guaranty Funds and Second Injury Funds and Other Mandatory Pooling and Reinsurance Arrangements. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state, including TRVs insurance subsidiaries, to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some claimants because of the insolvency of other insurers. Many states also have laws that established second injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury. TRVs insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers compensation, automobile insurance, property windpools in states prone to property damage from hurricanes, and FAIR plans, which provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage in the voluntary market. Assessments may include any charge mandated by statute or regulatory authority that is related directly or indirectly to underwriting activities. Examples of such mechanisms include, but are not limited to, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. Amounts payable or paid as a result of arrangements that are in substance reinsurance, including certain involuntary pools where insurers are required to assume premiums and losses from those pools, are accounted for as reinsurance (e.g., National Workers Compensation Reinsurance Pool). Amounts related to assessments from arrangements that are not reinsurance are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses." For additional information concerning assessments for guaranty funds and second injury funds and other mandatory pooling and reinsurance agreements including state funding mechanisms, see "Item 1A Risk Factors." 31 Table of Contents Insurance Regulatory Information System. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) developed the Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS) to help state regulators identify companies that may require special attention. Financial examiners review annual statements and key financial ratios based on year end data. These ratios assist state insurance departments in executing their statutory mandate to oversee the financial condition of insurance companies. Each ratio has an established "usual range" of results. A ratio result falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios, however, is not considered a failing result; rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. Furthermore, in some years, it may not be unusual for financially sound companies to have several ratios with results outside the usual ranges. Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory scrutiny if it falls outside the usual ranges of four or more of the ratios. Based on preliminary 2008 IRIS ratios calculated by the Company, The Travelers Indemnity Company and The Standard Fire Insurance Company had results outside the normal range on one IRIS ratio, due to the amount of dividends received from their respective subsidiaries. Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of America had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to reduced dividends paid to its parent company in 2008. First Trenton Indemnity Company had results outside the normal range for two IRIS ratios due to increased dividends paid to its parent company in 2008. Travelers Auto Insurance Co. of New Jersey had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the receipt of a capital contribution from its parent company. Several additional companies had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to increased direct written premiums in these companies. In 2007, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company had results outside the normal range on four of the IRIS ratios, and St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company had results outside the normal range on three of the IRIS ratios. These results were due to these companies becoming Travelers Reinsurance Pool participants in 2007. Previously, these companies had been 100% reinsured by The Travelers Indemnity Company, one of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool participants. In conjunction with their new participation, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company and St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company received capital contributions of $30 million and $10 million, respectively, from their parent company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, in 2007. Management does not anticipate regulatory action as a result of the 2008 IRIS ratio results. In all instances in prior years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow up that no regulatory action was required. It is possible that similar results could occur in the future. Risk Based Capital (RBC) Requirements. The NAIC has an RBC requirement for most property and casualty insurance companies. The RBC requirement determines minimum capital requirements and is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations. Under laws adopted by individual states, insurers having total adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with higher levels of capital. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2008, all of TRVs insurance subsidiaries had total adjusted capital in excess of the RBC requirement. Investment Regulation. Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. At December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with these laws and regulations. Agent and Broker Compensation. As part of industry wide investigations, the Company received subpoenas and written requests for information from a number of regulators. The areas of pending inquiry addressed to the Company include the method by which brokers and agents are compensated. 32 Table of Contents The Company cooperated with these subpoenas and requests for information. The Company has also entered into agreements with several of these regulators to resolve issues related to broker and agent compensation. As a result of these agreements, the Company has discontinued paying contingent commissions in the United States on a number of insurance businesses, including excess casualty and umbrella, personal insurance, boiler and machinery, financial guaranty, fidelity and burglary & theft. The Company has developed alternative compensation arrangements for these lines of business that compensate brokers and agents in a manner that differentiates for business performance and is consistent with all applicable laws. Beginning January 1, 2007, the Company offered an optional fixed commission program in the U.S. for most commercial insurance lines. International Regulation TRVs insurance underwriting subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom, Travelers Insurance Company Limited and Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of Europe Limited, are regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). The FSAs principal objectives are to maintain market confidence, promote public understanding of the financial system, protect consumers, and fight financial crime. TRVs managing agent (Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd.) of its Lloyds syndicate is also regulated by the FSA, which has delegated certain regulatory responsibilities to the Council of Lloyds. Through Lloyds, TRV is licensed to write business in over 70 countries throughout the world by virtue of Lloyds international licenses. In each such country, TRV is subject to the laws and insurance regulation of that country. In 2007, a TRV subsidiary, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, established a representative office in China. The representative office is regulated by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission. In addition, in 2007, TRVs Lloyds managing operations agency established a service company in Singapore, the underwriting operations of which are regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. TRVs insurance operations in the Republic of Ireland are regulated by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. In Canada, the conduct of TRVs insurance business is regulated by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions under provisions of the Insurance Companies Act, which requires insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital depending on the type and amount of insurance policies in force. TRVs branch in runoff in Australia is regulated by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority. Insurance Holding Company Statutes As a holding company, TRV is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since TRV owns capital stock in insurance subsidiaries, it is subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of each of its insurance subsidiaries states of domicile. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws, require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions. Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control. Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance approval by state agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state. The laws of many states also contain provisions requiring pre notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non domestic insurance company admitted to transact business in that state. While these pre notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, they do authorize issuance of cease and desist orders with respect to the non domestic insurer if it is determined that some conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the acquisition. 33 Table of Contents Any transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of TRVs insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled. They may also require pre acquisition notification in those states that have adopted pre acquisition notification provisions and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business. One of TRVs insurance subsidiaries and its operations at Lloyds are domiciled in the United Kingdom. Insurers in the United Kingdom are subject to change of control restrictions in the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 including approval of the Financial Services Authority. Some of TRVs other insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in, or authorized to conduct insurance business in, Canada. Authorized insurers in Canada are subject to change of control restrictions in Section 407 of the Insurance Companies Act, including approval of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions. These requirements may deter, delay or prevent transactions affecting the control of or the ownership of common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to TRVs shareholders. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT As a large property casualty insurance enterprise, the Company is exposed to many risks. These risks are a function of the environments within which the Company operates. Since certain risks can be correlated with other risks, an event or a series of events can impact multiple areas of the Company simultaneously and have a material effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity. These exposures require an entity wide view of risk and an understanding of the potential impact on all aspects of the Company. It also requires the Company to manage its risk taking to be within its risk appetite in a prudent effort to create and preserve value for all of the Companys constituents. This approach to Company wide risk evaluation and management is commonly called Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). ERM activities involve both the identification and assessment of a broad range of risks and the development of plans to effectively manage such risks. ERM at the Company has been operational for many years and incorporates risk based analytics, reporting and feedback among the various disciplines throughout the Company, including, but not limited to, the underwriting, claim, reinsurance, investment, legal, regulatory, actuarial, finance and technology functions. Board oversight of ERM is provided by the Risk Committee. In addition to the day to day risk management activities within the Companys business units, other key internal risk management functions include the Management Committee (comprised of the Companys Chief Executive Officer and the other most senior members of management), the Risk Committee of management, the Credit Committee, the Chief Compliance Officer, the Business Conduct Officer, the Corporate Actuarial group, the Internal Audit group, the Accounting Policy group, the Enterprise Underwriting group and many others. A senior executive oversees the ERM process. The mission of this executive is to facilitate risk assessment and to collaborate in implementing risk management strategies. Another strategic ERM objective includes working across the Company to enhance effective and realistic risk modeling capabilities as part of the Companys overall effort to understand and manage its portfolio of risks to be within its risk appetite. The Companys ERM efforts build upon its foundation of internal control. ERM expands the internal control objectives of effective and efficient operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, to fostering, leading and supporting an integrated, risk based culture within the Company that focuses on value creation and preservation. However, internal control systems and ERM can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control systems objectives will be met. Further, the design of any control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. As a result, the possibility of material financial loss remains in spite of the Companys significant risk management efforts. An investor should carefully consider the risks and all of the other information set 34 Table of Contents forth in this annual report, including the discussions included in "Item 1A Risk Factors," "Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," and "
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Also see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings." We are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. In addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. Establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. Moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, impede our ability to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors & officers insurance policies relating to: losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution or structuring; fraud, including those related to investment management businesses; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; the assertion of "public nuisance" theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs and or to abate hazards to public health and safety; and 54  Table of Contents medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. In addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. In particular, recent shifts in the political landscape could increase the likelihood of the passing of such legislation in a number of states. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. We compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, a number of which are experiencing financial difficulties. Competitors that are experiencing financial difficulties may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain their business. The competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us, as well as to our competitors. Also, competitors that receive financial support from the federal government may have advantages that are not available to other market participants. See "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Outlook." Our competitive position is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to retain existing customers, to obtain new business and to profitably price our business; agent, broker and client relationships; speed of claims payment; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; local presence; and ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems. We may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. If competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. See "Competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "Item 1 Business." The insurance industry and we are the subject of a number of investigations by state and federal authorities in the United States. We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or the impact on our business practices or financial results. As part of industry wide investigations, we have 55 Table of Contents received subpoenas and written requests for information from a number of government agencies and authorities, including, among others, state attorneys general, state insurance departments, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The areas of pending inquiry addressed to us include our relationship with brokers and agents and our involvement with "non traditional" insurance and reinsurance products. We may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these matters. For further information, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings". It would be premature to reach any conclusions as to the likely outcome of these matters or the impact on our business or financial results. Potential outcomes could include enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in fines, penalties and or changes in business practices that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, these investigations may result in changes in laws and regulations affecting the industry in general which could, in turn, also materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by governmental regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. This regulatory system is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. For example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all fifty states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer. The funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. As a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. This regulatory system also addresses authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non financial components of an insurers business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In addition, Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. In the future, additional federal regulation may be enacted which could impact the ways in which we conduct our business and could result in higher compliance costs. We cannot predict the effect any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business or results of operations. Although the United States federal government does not currently directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation (e.g., the repeal of the McCarran Ferguson Act) and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. A number of proposals being considered by the U.S. Congress, if they became law, would give the federal government an increased role in insurance regulation, including supervisory authority over the holding company. Further, in a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. For example, insurance regulators may 56 Table of Contents choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. Insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. A downgrade in our claims paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. Claims paying and financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurers competitive position. Rating agencies review insurers ratings periodically, and change their ratings criteria periodically, and therefore our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. A downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with us. Additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. If significant losses, such as those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment impairments were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. A continued trend of more frequent and severe weather related catastrophes or a prolonged economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. For further discussion about our ratings, see, "Item 1 Business Ratings." The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. Our holding company relies on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. We are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. In a time of prolonged economic downturn, regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. Disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. We market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. An important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. We rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll free numbers for distribution. In some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. Should internet disruptions occur, or frustration 57 Table of Contents with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, the resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. Loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of Personal Insurance products could reduce our future profitability. In Personal Insurance, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. Some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. In August of 2008, for example, the Michigan Court of Appeals ruled to allow state regulators to prohibit insurers from using customers credit scores to determine home and auto insurance rates. Laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could adversely affect our future profitability. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the United States. We conduct business outside the United States primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada and Ireland. We have also started to explore opportunities in other countries, including in emerging markets such as India and China. While our business outside of the United States currently constitutes a relatively small portion of our revenues, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. These risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. In addition, some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. Failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. These activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control systems objectives will be met. If our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. Our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. We depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. Some system development projects are long term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. They also may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete. If we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. If we experience difficulties with technology, data security and or outsourcing relationships our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. Our business is highly dependent upon our employees ability to perform, in an efficient and 58 Table of Contents uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. A shut down of, or inability to, access one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. We outsource certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. Our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. In addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the United States might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the United States. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. Acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. From time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunity is consistent with our long term objectives and that the potential rewards of the acquisition exceed the risks. The process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. For example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of underwriting, claims handling and actuarial practices; the increase in the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends reestablish themselves within the combined organization, as past trends (that were a function of past products, past claims handling procedures, past claims departments and past legal and other experts) may not repeat themselves; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; and the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees. There is no guarantee that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated, and the ineffective integration of our businesses and processes may result in substantial costs or delays and adversely affect our ability to compete. Also, the acquired business may not perform as projected, and any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize. 59 Table of Contents  Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On July 23, 2004, the Company announced that it was seeking guidance from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to the appropriate purchase accounting treatment for certain second quarter 2004 adjustments totaling $1.63 billion ($1.07 billion after tax). The Company recorded these adjustments as charges in its consolidated statement of income in the second quarter of 2004. Through an informal comment process, the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance subsequently asked for further information, which the Company provided. Specifically, the staff asked for information concerning the Companys adjustments to certain of SPCs insurance reserves and reserves for reinsurance recoverables and premiums due from policyholders, and how those adjustments may relate to SPCs reserves for periods prior to the merger of SPC and TPC. After reviewing the staffs questions and comments and discussions with the Companys independent auditors, the Company continues to believe that its accounting treatment for these adjustments is appropriate. If, however, the staff disagrees, some or all of the adjustments being considered may not be recorded as charges in the Companys consolidated statement of income, thereby increasing net income for the second quarter and full year 2004 and increasing shareholders equity at December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, in each case by the approximate after tax amount of the change. The effect on tangible shareholders equity (adjusted for the effects of deferred taxes associated with goodwill and other intangible assets) at December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 would not be material. Increases to goodwill and deferred tax liabilities would be reflected on the Companys balance sheet at April 1, 2004, either due to purchase accounting or adjustment of SPCs reserves prior to the merger of SPC and TPC. On May 3, 2006, the Company received a letter from the Division of Enforcement of the SEC (the Division) advising the Company that it is conducting an inquiry relating to the second quarter 2004 adjustments and the April 1, 2004 merger between SPC and TPC. The Company cooperated with the Divisions requests for information.  Item 2. PROPERTIES The Company leases its principal executive offices in New York, New York, as well as 191 field and claim offices totaling approximately 5.3 million square feet throughout the United States under leases or subleases with third parties. The Company owns six buildings in Hartford, Connecticut. The Company currently occupies approximately 1.8 million square feet of office space in these buildings. The Company also owns office buildings located at 385 Washington Street and 130 West Sixth Street, St. Paul, Minnesota. These buildings are adjacent to one another and consist of approximately 1.1 million square feet of gross floor space. The Company also owns other real property, including office buildings in Denver, Colorado and Fall River, Massachusetts, as well as a data center located in Norcross, Georgia. The Company owns a building in London, England, which houses a portion of its operations in the United Kingdom. The Company, through its subsidiaries, owns an investment portfolio of income producing properties and real estate funds. Included in this portfolio are four office buildings in which the Company holds a 50% ownership interest located in New York, New York, which collectively accounted for approximately 10% of the carrying value of the property portfolio at December 31, 2008. In the opinion of the Companys management, the Companys properties are adequate and suitable for its business as presently conducted and are adequately maintained. 60 Table of Contents  Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS This section describes the major pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the Companys property is subject. Asbestos and Environmental Related Proceedings In the ordinary course of its insurance business, the Company receives claims for insurance arising under policies issued by the Company asserting alleged injuries and damages from asbestos and environmental related exposures that are the subject of related coverage litigation, including, among others, the litigation described below. The Company continues to be subject to aggressive asbestos related litigation. The conditions surrounding the final resolution of these claims and the related litigation continue to change. The Company is defending its asbestos and environmental related litigation vigorously and believes that it has meritorious defenses; however, the outcomes of these disputes are uncertain. In this regard, the Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive resolution strategies to manage asbestos and environmental loss exposure, including settling litigation under appropriate circumstances. For a discussion of other information regarding the Companys asbestos and environmental exposure, see "Part II Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asbestos Claims and Litigation," " Environmental Claims and Litigation" and " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." In October 2001 and April 2002, two purported class action suits (Wise v. Travelers and Meninger v. Travelers) were filed against TPC and other insurers (not including SPC) in state court in West Virginia. These and other cases subsequently filed in West Virginia were consolidated into a single proceeding in the Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia. The plaintiffs allege that the insurer defendants engaged in unfair trade practices by inappropriately handling and settling asbestos claims. The plaintiffs seek to reopen large numbers of settled asbestos claims and to impose liability for damages, including punitive damages, directly on insurers. Similar lawsuits were filed in Massachusetts and Hawaii state courts (these suits and the West Virginia suits are collectively referred to as the Statutory and Hawaii Actions). In March 2002, the plaintiffs in consolidated asbestos actions pending before a mass tort panel of judges in West Virginia state court amended their complaint to include TPC as a defendant, alleging that TPC and other insurers breached alleged duties to certain users of asbestos products. The plaintiffs seek damages, including punitive damages. Lawsuits seeking similar relief and raising similar allegations, primarily violations of purported common law duties to third parties, are also pending in Texas state court against TPC and SPC, and in Louisiana state court against TPC (the claims asserted in these suits, together with the West Virginia suit, are collectively referred to as the Common Law Claims). The federal bankruptcy court that had presided over the bankruptcy of TPCs former policyholder Johns Manville Corporation issued a temporary injunction prohibiting the prosecution of the Statutory Actions (but not the Hawaii Actions), the Common Law Claims and an additional set of cases filed in various state courts in Texas and Ohio, and enjoining certain attorneys from filing any further lawsuits against TPC based on similar allegations. Notwithstanding the injunction, additional common law claims were filed against TPC. In November 2003, the parties reached a settlement of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions. This settlement includes a lump sum payment of up to $412 million by TPC, subject to a number of significant contingencies. In May 2004, the parties reached a settlement resolving substantially all pending and similar future Common Law Claims against TPC. This settlement requires a payment of 61 Table of Contents up to $90 million by TPC, subject to a number of significant contingencies. Each of these settlements is contingent upon, among other things, a final order of the bankruptcy court clarifying that all of these claims, and similar future asbestos related claims against TPC, are barred by prior orders entered by the bankruptcy court. On August 17, 2004, the bankruptcy court entered an order approving the settlements and clarifying its prior orders that all of the pending Statutory and Hawaii Actions and substantially all Common Law Claims pending against TPC are barred. The order also applies to similar direct action claims that may be filed in the future. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders that required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts March 29, 2006 ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating on jurisdictional grounds the District Courts approval of an order issued by the bankruptcy court prohibiting the prosecution of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims, as well as future similar direct action litigation, against TPC. On February 29, 2008, TPC and certain other parties to the appeals filed petitions for rehearing and or rehearing en banc, requesting reinstatement of the district courts judgment, which were denied. TPC and certain other parties filed Petitions for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuits decision, and on December 12, 2008, the Petitions were granted. Unless the Supreme Court reverses the Second Circuits decision, and the bankruptcy courts order is reinstated and becomes final, the settlements will be voided, and TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts due under the settlement agreements (other than certain administrative expenses). In that case, the Company intends to litigate the direct action cases vigorously. SPC, which is not covered by the bankruptcy court rulings or the settlements described above, is a party to pending direct action cases in Texas state court asserting common law claims. All such cases that are still pending and in which SPC has been served are currently on the inactive docket in Texas state court. If any of those cases becomes active, SPC intends to litigate those cases vigorously. Currently, it is not possible to predict legal outcomes and their impact on the future development of claims and litigation relating to asbestos and environmental claims. Any such development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. Because of these uncertainties, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of ultimate claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys results of operations in future periods. Other Proceedings From time to time, the Company is involved in proceedings addressing disputes with its reinsurers regarding the collection of amounts due under the Companys reinsurance agreements. These proceedings may be initiated by the Company or the reinsurers and may involve the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the coverage of particular claims, exclusions under the agreements, as well as counterclaims for rescission of the agreements. One of these disputes is the action described in the following paragraphs. The Companys Gulf operation brought an action on May 22, 2003 in the Supreme Court of New York, County of New York (Gulf Insurance Company v. Transatlantic Reinsurance Company, et al.), 62 Table of Contents against Transatlantic Reinsurance Company (Transatlantic), XL Reinsurance America, Inc. (XL), Odyssey America Reinsurance Corporation (Odyssey), Employers Reinsurance Company (Employers) and Gerling Global Reinsurance Corporation of America (Gerling), to recover amounts due under reinsurance contracts issued to Gulf and related to Gulfs February 2003 settlement of a coverage dispute under a vehicle residual value protection insurance policy. The reinsurers asserted counterclaims seeking rescission of the vehicle residual value reinsurance contracts issued to Gulf and unspecified damages for breach of contract. Gerling commenced a separate action asserting the same claims, which has been consolidated with the original Gulf action for pre trial purposes. Gulf has entered into final settlement agreements with Employers, XL, Transatlantic and Odyssey which resolve all claims between Gulf and these defendants under the reinsurance agreements at issue in the litigation. In November 2007, the court issued rulings denying Gulfs motion for partial summary judgment against Gerling, the sole remaining defendant, but granting Gerlings motion for partial summary judgment on certain claims and counterclaims asserted by Gulf and Gerling. Gulf has appealed the courts decision to the Supreme Court of New York Appellate Division, First Department, and has been granted a stay of trial on the remaining claims pending that appeal. Briefing of the appeal was completed on April 11, 2008, and oral argument was held on May 20, 2008. Gulf denies Gerlings allegations, believes that it has a strong legal basis to collect the amounts due under the reinsurance contracts and intends to vigorously pursue the action. Based on the Companys beliefs about its legal positions in its various reinsurance recovery proceedings, the Company does not expect any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations in a future period. As previously disclosed, as part of industry wide investigations that commenced in October 2004, the Company and its affiliates received subpoenas and written requests for information from a number of government agencies and authorities, including, among others, state attorneys general, state insurance departments, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The areas of pending inquiry addressed to the Company include its relationship with brokers and agents and the Companys involvement with "non traditional insurance and reinsurance products." The Company and its affiliates may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these matters. The Company cooperated with these subpoenas and requests for information. In addition, outside counsel, with the oversight of the Companys board of directors, conducted an internal review of certain of the Companys business practices. This review was commenced after the announcement of litigation brought in October 2004 by the New York Attorney Generals office against a major broker. The Company completed its review. With respect to the identified finite products purchased and sold, the Company concluded that no adjustment to previously issued financial statements was required. Any authority with open inquiries or investigations could ask that additional work be performed or reach conclusions different from the Companys. In 2005, four putative class action lawsuits were brought against a number of insurance brokers and insurers, including the Company and or certain of its affiliates, by plaintiffs who allegedly purchased insurance products through one or more of the defendant brokers. The plaintiffs alleged that various insurance brokers conspired with each other and with various insurers, including the Company and or certain of its affiliates, to artificially inflate premiums, allocate brokerage customers and rig bids for insurance products offered to those customers. To the extent they were not originally filed there, the federal class actions were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey and were consolidated for pre trial proceedings with other class actions under the caption In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation. On August 1, 2005, various plaintiffs, including the four named plaintiffs 63 Table of Contents in the above referenced class actions, filed an amended consolidated class action complaint naming various brokers and insurers, including the Company and certain of its affiliates, on behalf of a putative nationwide class of policyholders. The complaint included causes of action under the Sherman Act, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), state common law and the laws of the various states prohibiting antitrust violations. The complaint sought monetary damages, including punitive damages and trebled damages, permanent injunctive relief, restitution, including disgorgement of profits, interest and costs, including attorneys fees. All defendants moved to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. After giving plaintiffs multiple opportunities to replead, the court dismissed the Sherman Act claims on August 31, 2007 and the RICO claims on September 28, 2007, both with prejudice, and declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over the state law claims. The plaintiffs are appealing the district courts decisions to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Additional individual actions have been brought in state and federal courts against the Company involving allegations similar to those in In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation, and further actions may be brought. The Company believes that all of these lawsuits have no merit and intends to defend vigorously. In addition to those described above, the Company is involved in numerous lawsuits, not involving asbestos and environmental claims, arising mostly in the ordinary course of business operations, either as a liability insurer defending third party claims brought against policyholders, or as an insurer defending claims brought against it relating to coverage or the Companys business practices. While the ultimate resolution of these legal proceedings could be material to the Companys results of operations in a future period, in the opinion of the Companys management, none would likely have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position or liquidity. The Company previously reported that it sought guidance from the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to the appropriate purchase accounting treatment for certain second quarter 2004 adjustments totaling $1.63 billion. See "Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments." After discussion with the staff of the Division of Corporate Finance and the Companys independent auditors, the Company continues to believe that its accounting treatment for these adjustments is appropriate. On May 3, 2006, the Company received a letter from the Division of Enforcement of the SEC (the Division) advising the Company that it is conducting an inquiry relating to the second quarter 2004 adjustments and the April 1, 2004 merger of SPC and TPC. The Company cooperated with the Divisions requests for information.  Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS NONE. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information about the Companys executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Report. 64  Table of Contents  PART II  Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Companys common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "TRV." The number of holders of record, including individual owners, of the Companys common stock was 79,710 as of February 13, 2009. This is not the actual number of beneficial owners of the Companys common stock, as shares are held in "street name" by brokers and others on behalf of individual owners. The following table sets forth the amount of cash dividends declared per share and the high and low closing sales prices of the Companys common stock for each quarter during the last two fiscal years. High Low Cash Dividend Declared 2008 First Quarter $ 53.06 $ 44.92 $ 0.29 Second Quarter 52.15 43.40 0.30 Third Quarter 50.80 36.00 0.30 Fourth Quarter 45.20 30.50 0.30 2007 First Quarter $ 53.74 $ 49.59 $ 0.26 Second Quarter 56.76 51.85 0.29 Third Quarter 55.01 48.38 0.29 Fourth Quarter 55.18 50.05 0.29 The Company paid cash dividends per share of $1.19 in 2008 and $1.13 in 2007. Future dividend decisions will be based on, and affected by, a number of factors, including the operating results and financial requirements of the Company and the impact of dividend restrictions. For information on dividends, as well as restrictions on the ability of certain of the Companys subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Company in the form of cash dividends or otherwise, see "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." Dividends will be paid by the Company only if declared by its Board of Directors out of funds legally available, and subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. 65 Table of Contents  SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph shows a five year comparison of the cumulative total return for the Companys common stock and the common stock of companies included in the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Property & Casualty Index, which the Company believes is the most appropriate comparative index. (1)Assumes $100 invested in common shares of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. on December 31, 2003. The performance reflected is that of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. only until the date of the merger (April 1, 2004), and is that of The Travelers Companies, Inc. thereafter. (2)Companies in the S&P Property Casualty Index as of December 31, 2008 were the following: The Travelers Companies, Inc., The Chubb Corporation, Cincinnati Financial Corporation, Progressive Corporation, Allstate Corporation, MBIA, Inc. and XL Capital, Ltd. Returns of each of the companies included in this index have been weighted according to their respective market capitalizations. 66  Table of Contents  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The table below sets forth information regarding repurchases by the Company of its common stock during the periods indicated. Period Beginning Period Ending Total number of shares purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Maximum dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs Oct. 1, 2008 Oct. 31, 2008 2,729,696 $ 36.87 2,712,550 $ 3,809,857,539 Nov. 1, 2008 Nov. 30, 2008 199 41.34 3,809,857,539 Dec. 1, 2008 Dec. 31, 2008 4,037 43.35 3,809,857,539 Total 2,733,932 $ 36.88 2,712,550 $ 3,809,857,539 The Company repurchased 21,382 shares during this three month period that were not part of the publicly announced share repurchase authorization, representing shares repurchased to cover payroll withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options, and shares used to cover the exercise price of certain stock options that were exercised. The Companys share repurchase authorization, which has no expiration date, was first approved and announced by the Companys board of directors in May 2006. The original authorized repurchase capacity was $2 billion; in January 2007, the board of directors authorized an additional $3 billion of repurchase capacity. In January 2008, the board of directors authorized an additional $5 billion for share repurchases. Through December 31, 2008, the Company had repurchased a cumulative total of 123.9 million shares for a total cost of $6.19 billion and had $3.81 billion of remaining capacity at December 31, 2008 under the authorization. Information relating to compensation plans under which the Companys equity securities are authorized for issuance is set forth in Part III Item 12 of this Report. 67  Table of Contents  Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA For accounting purposes, the merger of SPC and TPC in 2004 was accounted for as a reverse acquisition with TPC treated as the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, this transaction was accounted for as a purchase business combination, using TPCs historical financial information and applying fair value estimates to the acquired assets, liabilities and commitments of SPC as of April 1, 2004. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in the future. At and for the year ended December 31,(1) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 24,477 $ 26,017 $ 25,090 $ 24,365 $ 22,544 Income from continuing operations $ 2,924 $ 4,601 $ 4,208 $ 2,061 $ 867 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (439 ) 88 Net income $ 2,924 $ 4,601 $ 4,208 $ 1,622 $ 955 Total investments $ 70,738 $ 74,818 $ 72,268 $ 68,287 $ 64,368 Total assets 109,751 115,224 115,292 113,736 111,246 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves 54,723 57,700 59,288 61,090 59,070 Total debt 6,181 6,242 5,760 5,850 6,313 Total liabilities 84,432 88,608 90,157 91,433 90,045 Total shareholders equity 25,319 26,616 25,135 22,303 21,201 Basic earnings per share: Income from continuing operations $ 4.90 $ 7.04 $ 6.12 $ 3.04 $ 1.42 Income (loss) from discontinued operations(2) (0.65 ) 0.14 Net income $ 4.90 $ 7.04 $ 6.12 $ 2.39 $ 1.56 Diluted earnings per share: Income from continuing operations $ 4.82 $ 6.86 $ 5.91 $ 2.95 $ 1.40 Income (loss) from discontinued operations(2) (0.62 ) 0.13 Net income $ 4.82 $ 6.86 $ 5.91 $ 2.33 $ 1.53 Year end common shares outstanding 585.1 627.8 678.3 693.4 670.3 Per common share data: Cash dividends $ 1.19 $ 1.13 $ 1.01 $ 0.91 $ 1.16 Book value $ 43.12 $ 42.22 $ 36.86 $ 31.94 $ 31.35 (1)On April 1, 2004, TPC merged with SPC, as a result of which TPC became a wholly owned subsidiary of SPC, and SPC changed its name to The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc. On February 26, 2007, the name of the Company was changed to The Travelers Companies, Inc. All financial information presented herein for the year ended December 31, 2004 reflects the accounts of TPC for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and the consolidated accounts of SPC and TPC for the nine months ended December 31, 2004. (2)In August 2005, the Company completed its divestiture of Nuveen Investments, Inc., its asset management subsidiary acquired in the merger. Accordingly, the Companys share of Nuveen Investments results prior to the divestiture was classified as discontinued operations, along with the net after tax loss on disposal. Prior period results were reclassified to be consistent with the 2005 presentation. 68  Table of Contents  Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company). 2008 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2008 Consolidated Results of Operations Net income of $2.92 billion, or $4.90 per share basic and $4.82 diluted Net earned premiums of $21.58 billion Catastrophe losses of $1.41 billion pretax ($919 million after tax) Net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.54 billion pretax ($1.00 billion after tax) GAAP combined ratio of 91.9% Pretax net investment income of $2.79 billion ($2.30 billion after tax) Net realized investment losses of $415 million pretax ($271 million after tax) 2008 Consolidated Financial Condition Total investments of $70.74 billion; fixed maturities and short term securities comprise 94% of total investments Total assets of $109.75 billion Total debt of $6.18 billion, resulting in a debt to total capital ratio of 19.5% Repurchased 45.0 million common shares for total cost of $2.12 billion under share repurchase authorization Shareholders equity of $25.32 billion; book value per common share of $43.12 Holding company liquidity of $2.15 billion CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW The Company provides a wide range of property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals, primarily in the United States and in selected international markets. 69 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations (for the year ended December 31, in millions except per share amounts) 2008 2007 2006 Revenues Premiums $ 21,579 $ 21,470 $ 20,760 Net investment income 2,792 3,761 3,517 Fee income 390 508 591 Net realized investment gains (losses) (415 ) 154 11 Other revenues 131 124 211 Total revenues 24,477 26,017 25,090 Claims and expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses 12,993 12,397 12,244 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 3,880 3,706 3,339 General and administrative expenses 3,518 3,352 3,458 Interest expense 370 346 324 Total claims and expenses 20,761 19,801 19,365 Income before income taxes 3,716 6,216 5,725 Income tax expense 792 1,615 1,517 Net income $ 2,924 $ 4,601 $ 4,208 Net income per share Basic $ 4.90 $ 7.04 $ 6.12 Diluted $ 4.82 $ 6.86 $ 5.91 GAAP combined ratio Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 59.4 % 56.6 % 57.5 % Underwriting expense ratio 32.5 30.8 30.6 GAAP combined ratio 91.9 % 87.4 % 88.1 % The Companys discussions of net income and segment operating income included in the following discussion are presented on an after tax basis. Discussions of the components of net income and segment operating income are presented on a pretax basis, unless otherwise noted. Discussions of earnings per common share are presented on a diluted basis. Overview Net income of $4.82 per common share in 2008 was 30% lower than the $6.86 per common share in 2007. Net income in 2008 totaled $2.92 billion, 36% lower than $4.60 billion in 2007. The lower rate of decline in per share income compared with the rate of decline in actual income reflected the impact of the Companys significant common share repurchases. The decrease in net income in 2008 was primarily due to a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes and a significant decline in net investment income. Also contributing to the decline were net realized investment losses, a small increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses, the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, the impact of loss cost trends and a decline in fee income. Net income in 2008 reflected an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of a subsidiary. In 2007, net income included a net pretax benefit of $163 million due to the implementation of a new fixed, value based compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents which resulted in a reduction in commission expense compared to what would have otherwise been reported, due to a change in the timing of expense recognition. These factors were partially offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development, which totaled $1.54 billion in 2008, 70 Table of Contents compared with $546 million in 2007. The cost of catastrophes in 2008, net of reinsurance and including hurricane related assessments of $141 million (discussed below), totaled $1.41 billion, compared with $167 million in 2007. Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as several other storms throughout the United States, accounted for the cost of catastrophes in 2008. Net income in 2007 also included a benefit of $86 million resulting from the favorable resolution of various prior year federal tax matters and a pretax loss of $39 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% contingently convertible debentures. Hurricane related assessments include assessments from state created insurance and windstorm insurance entities such as Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in Florida, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. Assessments are levied on insurers writing business in those states to fund the operating deficits of such entities during periods of significant storm activity. Hurricane related assessments are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses" as the amounts paid to such entities are not insured losses of the Company. Net income of $6.86 per common share in 2007 was 16% higher than the $5.91 per common share in 2006. Net income in 2007 totaled $4.60 billion, 9% higher than $4.21 billion in 2006. The higher rate of growth in per share income compared with the rate of growth in actual income in 2007 over 2006 reflected the impact of the Companys significant common share repurchases since its repurchase program began in the second quarter of 2006. The increase in net income in 2007 reflected growth in net investment income, a higher level of net favorable prior year reserve development, an increase in net realized investment gains, favorable current accident year results and increased business volume, partially offset by an increase in expenses and a decline in fee income. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $546 million in 2007, compared with net favorable prior year reserve development of $394 million in 2006. Expenses in 2007 included a net pretax benefit of $163 million due to the implementation of the new fixed, value based compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $167 million, compared with $103 million in 2006. Net income in both 2007 and 2006 included after tax benefits of $86 million due to the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. The 2007 total also included net realized investment gains of $154 million, compared with net realized investment gains of $11 million in 2006. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2008 totaled $21.58 billion, an increase of $109 million, or less than 1%, over 2007. In March 2007, the Company sold its Mexican surety subsidiary, Afianzadora Insurgentes, S.A. de C.V. (Afianzadora Insurgentes), which accounted for $27 million of earned premiums in 2007 prior to its sale. In April 2007, the Company sold Mendota Insurance Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, Mendota), which primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $46 million of earned premiums in 2007 prior to its sale. Adjusting for these sales in 2007, consolidated earned premiums in 2008 increased by $182 million, or 1%, over 2007. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2008 declined 1% from 2007 despite continued strong business retention rates, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing and new business. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 2% in 2008 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes) was driven by changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties for Bond & Financial Products. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 3% in 2008 (adjusted for the sale of Mendota) reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business volume, coupled with continued renewal price increases. Earned premiums in 2007 totaled $21.47 billion, an increase of $710 million, or 3%, over 2006. Afianzadora Insurgentes and Mendota accounted for $78 million and $176 million of earned premiums, 71 Table of Contents respectively, in 2006. Adjusting for the sales of these subsidiaries in both years, earned premiums in 2007 grew 4% over 2006. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 4% in 2007 over 2006 primarily reflected the impact of the growth in business volume over the preceding twelve months. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 4% in 2007 over 2006 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes) was driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange, growth in business volume and a benefit from adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 6% in 2007 over 2006 (adjusted for the sale of Mendota) reflected continued strong business retention rates, continued renewal price increases and growth from new business volumes over the preceding twelve months. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys investments. (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Average investments(a) $ 74,197 $ 73,872 $ 71,252 Pretax net investment income 2,792 3,761 3,517 After tax net investment income 2,299 2,915 2,712 Average pretax yield(b) 3.8 % 5.1 % 4.9 % Average after tax yield(b) 3.1 % 3.9 % 3.8 % (a)Excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of tax, and is adjusted for cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income. (b)Excludes net realized gains and losses and unrealized investment gains and losses. Net investment income of $2.79 billion in 2008 declined $969 million, or 26%, from 2007, primarily due to lower returns from non fixed maturity investments, which were negative in 2008, compared with strong positive returns in 2007. Non fixed maturity investments include private equity partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and typically report financial statement information on a lag. These partnerships and funds produced negative net investment income of $327 million in 2008 compared with net investment income of $473 million in 2007. The value of many of these investments was updated through year end based upon information made available by certain of the investment managers. This update accounted for $87 million of the non fixed maturity portfolios investment loss described above. The decline in net investment income from these investments in 2008 reflected market conditions, which resulted in a lower level of transactions and lower market values compared to those at December 31, 2007. Net investment income from the Companys fixed maturity portfolio in 2008 also declined from 2007, primarily due to a significant decline in short term interest rates. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2008 totaled $61.57 billion, $2.58 billion lower than at the same date in 2007, primarily reflecting the use of $2.12 billion of funds for the Companys common share repurchases during 2008, the payment of $715 million of dividends to shareholders, the transfer of $662 million of fixed maturity investments as part of the sale of Unionamerica, and $450 million of contributions to the Companys pension plan, which were partially offset by strong cash flows from operating activities. The average pretax investment yield of 3.8% in 2008 declined from 5.1% in 2007, primarily reflecting the negative investment income from non fixed maturity investments in 2008. Net investment income totaled $3.76 billion in 2007, an increase of $244 million, or 7%, over 2006 net investment income of $3.52 billion. The increase in 2007 was primarily the result of continued growth in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio resulting from strong cash flows from operating activities and higher yields on long term taxable fixed maturity securities. Also contributing to investment income growth in 2007 were strong levels of net investment income from the Companys 72 Table of Contents real estate partnerships. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2007 totaled $64.15 billion, $1.91 billion higher than year end 2006. The average pretax investment yield was 5.1% in 2007, compared with 4.9% in 2006. The increase primarily reflected strong returns generated by the real estate partnerships and higher yields on taxable investments purchased in 2007. Except as described below for certain legal entities, the Company allocates its invested assets and the related net investment income to its reportable business segments. Pretax net investment income is allocated based upon an investable funds concept, which takes into account liabilities (net of non invested assets) and appropriate capital considerations for each segment. For investable funds, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the estimated duration of the loss reserves future cash flows, the interest rate environment at the time the losses were incurred and A+ rated corporate debt instrument yields. For capital, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the average yield on the total investment portfolio. The benchmark investment yields are applied to each segments investable funds and capital, respectively, to produce a total notional investment income by segment. The Companys actual net investment income is allocated to each segment in proportion to the respective segments notional investment income to total notional investment income. There are certain legal entities within the Company that are dedicated to specific reportable business segments. The invested assets and related net investment income from these legal entities are reported in the applicable business segment and are not allocated. Fee Income The National Accounts market in the Business Insurance segment is the primary source of the Companys fee based business. The declines in fee income in 2008 and 2007 compared with the respective prior years are described in the Business Insurance segment discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) Net realized investment losses of $415 million in 2008 were driven by $420 million of investment impairments. The 2008 impairments included $186 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers (including $70 million related to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its subsidiaries), $113 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value, $64 million related to structured mortgage obligations and $57 million related to securities the Company has identified for potential sales prior to a recovery in market value. Net realized investment losses in 2008 also included $77 million related to convertible bonds wherein the embedded option price is marked to market through realized gains or losses and $53 million of losses related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts (which require a daily mark to market settlement and are used to shorten the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio). Partially offsetting these realized investment losses in 2008 were net realized gains of $50 million related to foreign currency exchange gains, $39 million from the sale of subsidiaries and $17 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of venture capital investments. Net realized investment gains of $154 million in 2007 included $91 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $16 million) generated by the venture capital portfolio (including an $81 million net realized investment gain from the bundled sale of a substantial portion of the Companys venture capital investment holdings), $63 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of a privately held security, $21 million of net realized investment gains related to the Companys holdings of stock purchase warrants of Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., a publicly held company, and $5 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $37 million) from the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These gains were partially offset by a net realized investment loss of $24 million related to the divestiture of a subsidiary. Net realized investment gains in 2006 totaled $11 million. 73 Table of Contents Further information regarding the nature of impairment charges in each year is included in the "Investment Portfolio" section later in this discussion. Other Revenues Other revenues in all periods presented primarily consist of premium installment charges. In 2007, other revenues also reflected a $39 million loss related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. Other revenues in 2006 included a $42 million gain on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.60% subordinated debentures. Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Business Insurance $ 12,580 $ 13,017 $ 13,047 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,966 4,037 3,981 Personal Insurance 7,291 7,144 7,011 Total $ 23,837 $ 24,198 $ 24,039 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Business Insurance $ 11,220 $ 11,318 $ 11,046 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,468 3,465 3,393 Personal Insurance 6,995 6,835 6,711 Total $ 21,683 $ 21,618 $ 21,150 Afianzadora Insurgentes and Mendota generated combined gross and net written premiums of $79 million and $74 million, respectively, in 2007, prior to their sale. Adjusting for the sale of these operations in 2007, gross written premiums in 2008 declined 1% and net written premiums in 2008 increased by less than 1% compared with 2007. In the Business Insurance segment, net written premiums decreased by 1% from 2007, despite strong business retention rates. Premium growth in Industry Focused Underwriting, Select Accounts and Commercial Accounts in 2008, which was generally driven by strong business retention rates and new business volume, was largely offset by premium declines in National Accounts, Target Risk Underwriting and Specialized Distribution which primarily resulted from declines in renewal price changes. Net written premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes increased by 1% over 2007, largely driven by changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained in the Bond & Financial Products group. In the Personal Insurance segment, net written premiums in 2008 adjusted for the sale of Mendota increased 3% over 2007, reflecting continued strong retention rates, renewal price increases and growth in new business levels. Afianzadora Insurgentes and Mendota generated combined gross and net written premiums of $279 million and $265 million, respectively, in 2006. Adjusting for the impact of premium volume from those operations in both years, the Companys consolidated gross and net written premiums in 2007 increased 2% and 3%, respectively, over 2006. In Business Insurance, net written premium growth of 2% was concentrated in the Commercial Accounts, Select Accounts and Industry Focused Underwriting markets, primarily driven by strong business retention rates coupled with higher new business volume. 74 Table of Contents In addition, a decline in premiums ceded for catastrophe reinsurance contributed to net written premium growth over 2006 in Business Insurance. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, net written premium growth of 4% (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes) reflected the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange and strong business volume in construction surety, in Canada and at Lloyds. Adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds also contributed to the growth in net premium volume in 2007. Net written premium growth of 4% in the Personal Insurance segment in 2007 (adjusted for the sale of Mendota) was driven by continued strong retention rates and renewal price increases, partially offset by a decline in new business volume, particularly for coastal coverages. Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.99 billion in 2008, $596 million, or 5%, higher than the 2007 total of $12.40 billion, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses in Personal Insurance and the impact of loss cost trends. These factors were partially offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $1.26 billion, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as wind, rain and hail storms in several regions of the United States throughout the year. The cost of catastrophes in 2007 totaled $167 million, primarily resulting from wildfires in California and several wind, rain and hail storms throughout the United States. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 totaled $1.54 billion, compared with $546 million of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007. The Companys three business segments each experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. The majority of net favorable prior year reserve development occurred in the Business Insurance segment and was driven by better than expected loss results primarily concentrated in the general liability, commercial multi peril, commercial property and commercial automobile product lines, partially offset by increases in workers compensation reserves and $70 million and $85 million increases in asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively (which are discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein). The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment experienced favorable prior year loss experience in the International group, particularly in the public and products liability (general liability), professional indemnity (professional liability) and property lines of business in the United Kingdom, the general liability line of business in Canada, and the Aviation and Property lines of business at Lloyds. In the Personal Insurance segment, favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina as well as better than expected loss experience in certain lines of business within the Homeowners and Other product line. Each of the Companys three business segments also experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007. In Business Insurance, net favorable prior year reserve development was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. Net total prior year reserve development in 2007 in the Business Insurance segment included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 primarily reflected better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 occurred in both the Automobile and Homeowners and Other lines of business. 75 Table of Contents Factors contributing to net favorable prior year reserve development in each segment in 2008, 2007 and 2006 are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Claims and claim adjustment expenses of $12.40 billion in 2007 were $153 million, or 1%, higher than the 2006 total of $12.24 billion. The 2007 total included $546 million of net favorable prior year reserve development and $167 million of catastrophe losses, whereas the 2006 total included $394 million of net favorable prior year reserve development and $103 million of catastrophe losses. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was concentrated in the Personal Insurance segment, primarily reflecting better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. The Business Insurance segment also experienced net favorable prior year loss experience in its ongoing operations in 2006, primarily in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business. The favorable development in 2006 was partially offset by $155 million and $120 million increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively, which are discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein. There was also unfavorable prior year reserve development in runoff assumed reinsurance business in 2006. In 2006, catastrophe losses totaled $103 million, all of which was incurred in the Personal Insurance segment and resulted from several wind, rain, hail and snow storms in the United States throughout the year. Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.88 billion in 2008, $174 million, or 5%, higher than the comparable 2007 total of $3.71 billion. The growth in amortization costs in 2008 primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007, described in more detail below. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.71 billion in 2007, $367 million, or 11%, higher than the comparable total of $3.34 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting a $213 million increase from the implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents described below. The remaining increase was primarily due to growth in business volume in 2007. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses totaled $3.52 billion in 2008, an increase of $166 million, or 5%, over the comparable 2007 total of $3.35 billion. This increase primarily reflected the impact of $141 million of hurricane related assessments. General and administrative expenses totaled $3.35 billion in 2007, a decrease of $106 million, or 3%, from the comparable 2006 total of $3.46 billion. The decline primarily reflected the impact of the Companys implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in the following paragraph, which was largely offset by expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company discontinued the use of contingent commissions and implemented a new fixed agent compensation program for all of its personal insurance business. The Company also offered the majority of its agents conducting commercial insurance business the option to switch to this new program. The Companys total payout rate for all agent compensation for 2007 was substantially the same as for 2006; however, the change to the new program created a difference in the timing of commission expense recognition. The cost of the new program is required to be deferred and amortized over the related policy period (generally six to twelve months), whereas the cost of the 76 Table of Contents contingent commission program was not subject to deferred acquisition cost accounting treatment and, therefore, was expensed as incurred. That timing difference resulted in a benefit to income during the 2007 transition year. The impact of this change in 2007 was to lower reported expenses by $376 million in the "General and Administrative Expenses" income statement line, and increase reported expenses by $213 million in the "Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs" income statement line, compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program. Interest Expense Interest expense in 2008 totaled $370 million, an increase of $24 million, or 7%, over the 2007 total of $346 million. The increase primarily reflected a higher average level of debt outstanding at a higher weighted average interest rate during 2008. Interest expense of $346 million in 2007 was $22 million higher than the comparable 2006 total of $324 million. The increase primarily reflected the impact of the Companys issuance of debt in 2007, which is described in more detail in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section herein. Proceeds from a substantial portion of debt issuances in 2007 were used to fund the redemption and maturity of certain of the Companys indebtedness. Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate was 21.3%, 26.0% and 26.5% in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The declines in 2008 and 2007 primarily reflected a higher proportion of tax exempt investment income. GAAP Combined Ratios The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 59.4% for 2008 was 2.8 points higher than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 56.6% in 2007. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 5.8 points of the 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 0.7 point impact from catastrophe losses. The 2008 and 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included 7.1 point and 2.5 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 2.3 points higher than the respective 2007 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, a small increase in the number of large losses, non catastrophe weather related losses and loss cost trends. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008 was 1.7 points higher than the 2007 underwriting expense ratio of 30.8%. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.7 point impact of the hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 0.8 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described above. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the adjusted 2008 expense ratio was 0.2 points higher than the adjusted expense ratio in 2007, reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development, as well as salary increases in the normal course of business. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 56.6% in 2007 was 0.9 points lower than the comparable 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.5%. The 2007 and 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included benefits of 2.5 points and 1.9 points, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses accounted for 0.7 points and 0.5 points of the 2007 and 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios. Excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development, the 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved by 0.5 points compared with the comparable 2006 ratio, reflecting continuing improvement in current accident year results in several lines of business. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2007 was 0.2 points higher than the comparable 2006 underwriting expense ratio of 30.6%. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described above provided a benefit of 0.8 points to the expense ratios in 2007, which was more than offset by the increases in expenses discussed above. 77  Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of the Companys Business Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 11,180 $ 11,283 $ 10,876 Net investment income 1,917 2,708 2,538 Fee income 390 508 591 Other revenues 30 24 44 Total revenues $ 13,517 $ 14,523 $ 14,049 Total claims and expenses $ 10,506 $ 10,444 $ 10,509 Operating income $ 2,338 $ 3,015 $ 2,622 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 57.7 % 57.1 % 60.3 % Underwriting expense ratio 32.5 30.7 30.6 GAAP combined ratio 90.2 % 87.8 % 90.9 % Overview Operating income of $2.34 billion in 2008 was $677 million, or 22%, lower than operating income of $3.02 billion in 2007, primarily due to a significant decline in net investment income and an increase in the cost of catastrophes. Also contributing to this reduction were a decline in fee income, the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, the impact of loss cost trends, and a small increase in the number of large property losses. A significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 partially offset these factors. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 totaled $706 million, compared with $4 million in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.12 billion and $301 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operating income in 2008 included an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised the Companys United Kingdom based runoff direct insurance and reinsurance businesses. Operating income in 2007 benefited by $81 million from the Companys implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program (described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein) and the resolution of certain tax matters. Operating income of $3.02 billion in 2007 was $393 million, or 15%, higher than operating income of $2.62 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting increases in net favorable prior year reserve development and net investment income, the continuation of favorable current accident year results and the resolution of certain tax matters. In addition, results in 2007 benefited from the change to the new fixed agent compensation program. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 and 2006 totaled $301 million and $21 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $4 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2006. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $11.18 billion in 2008 decreased $103 million, or 1%, from 2007, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing and new business. Earned premiums of $11.28 billion in 2007 increased 4% over 2006 earned premiums of $10.88 billion, reflecting the growth in net written premium volume in the majority of the markets comprising this segment, driven by strong business retention rates and increases in new business volume, partially offset by minor decreases in renewal price changes. 78 Table of Contents Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2008 and 2007 as compared with the prior year. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to its service businesses, which include claim and loss prevention services to large companies that choose to self insure a portion of their insurance risks, and claims and policy management services to workers compensation residual market pools. The $118 million and $83 million declines in fee income in 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily resulted from lower serviced premium volume due to the depopulation of workers compensation residual market pools, the impact of lower loss costs on fee income (since fees are principally based on a percentage of losses or number of claims serviced, both of which have declined due to workers compensation reforms in numerous states), and lower new business volume due to increased competition. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $6.61 billion, an increase of $65 million, or 1%, over 2007, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, a small increase in the number of large property losses and the impact of loss cost trends, which were largely offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $642 million, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav as well as wind, rain and hail storms in several regions of the United States throughout the year. Catastrophe losses in 2007 were $4 million. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $1.12 billion and $301 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year development in 2008 was driven by better than expected loss results primarily concentrated in the general liability and commercial multi peril product lines, an increase in anticipated ceded recoveries for older accident years in the general liability product line and better than anticipated loss development in the commercial property and commercial automobile product lines. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the general liability and commercial multi peril lines was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial property product line improvement occurred primarily in the 2007 accident year as a result of better than expected loss development for certain large national property, national programs, and ocean marine claim exposures and lower than expected weather related losses during the last half of 2007, as well as favorable loss development in certain large inland marine claim exposures and in ceded recoveries for commercial property large claims. In addition, the commercial multi peril and property product lines 2005 accident year results experienced improvement due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The commercial automobile product line improvement was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the foregoing product lines in 2008 was partially offset by net unfavorable prior year reserve development in the workers compensation product line, primarily driven by higher than anticipated medical costs related to 2004 and prior accident years, and by $70 million and $85 million increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively, which are discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein. Net favorable prior year reserve development of $301 million in 2007 was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. The commercial multi peril and general 79 Table of Contents liability product lines experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial automobile product line experienced better than expected loss development due to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The property product line experienced fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006, as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. Net total prior year reserve development in 2007 included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves. (Refer to the "Environmental Claims and Litigation" section herein for additional discussion.) Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2007 of $6.67 billion declined by $180 million, or 3%, from the 2006 total of $6.85 billion, primarily reflecting an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development and continued favorable current accident year results, partially offset by an increase in business volume. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 totaled $21 million. In 2006, net favorable prior year reserve development in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business was largely offset by increases totaling $275 million to asbestos and environmental reserves and reserve strengthening for assumed reinsurance business in runoff. The commercial multi peril and liability lines of business experienced better than anticipated loss development in 2006 that was attributable to several factors, including improving legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 in the property line of business primarily reflected less "demand surge" inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe and catastrophe losses. "Demand surge" refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. The commercial automobile line of business experienced better than expected loss development which was attributable to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The reserve strengthening in assumed reinsurance was primarily due to changes in projected loss development driven by an unanticipated change in the claim settlement patterns of the underlying casualty exposures. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.82 billion in 2008, $76 million, or 4%, higher than the comparable total of $1.74 billion in 2007. The growth in amortization costs primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense in 2008 resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2007 was 13% higher than the 2006 total of $1.55 billion. The increase reflected the growth in business volume, as well as a $108 million increase from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program (described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein). General and administrative expenses totaled $2.08 billion in 2008, an increase of $51 million, or 3%, over the comparable 2007 total of $2.03 billion. The increase in 2008 primarily reflected the impact of $62 million of hurricane related assessments. General and administrative expenses in 2007 were 4% lower than the comparable total of $2.10 billion in 2006. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in the first quarter of 2007 resulted in a reduction of $189 million in reported general and administrative expenses in 2007 compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program during those periods. That reduction was partially offset by an increase in expenses related to growth in business volume and continuing expenditures to support business growth and product development. The 2006 total included a provision for legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies. 80 Table of Contents GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008 of 57.7% was 0.6 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 57.1%. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 5.7 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008, compared with no impact from catastrophes in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development provided 10.0 point and 2.6 point benefits to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 2.3 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing over the preceding twelve months and loss cost trends, as well as a small increase in the number of large property losses. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.1% in 2007 was 3.2 points lower than the comparable 2006 ratio of 60.3%. In 2007, net favorable prior year reserve development provided a 2.6 point benefit to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 0.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Adjusting for the impact of prior year reserve development in both years, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2007 was 0.8 points better than the comparable 2006 ratio, reflecting favorable current accident year results in 2007. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008 was 1.8 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 30.7%. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.6 point impact of the hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 0.7 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the adjusted 2008 expense ratio was 0.5 points higher than the adjusted expense ratio for 2007, primarily reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development, the impact of a decline in the rate of earned premium growth relative to expense growth, and declines in fee income. A portion of fee income is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.7% in 2007, which included a 0.7 point benefit resulting from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, was 0.1 points higher than the 2006 ratio, reflecting the increases in general and administrative expenses described above, and the impact of a decline in fee income. Written Premiums The Business Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Select Accounts $ 2,804 $ 2,774 $ 2,733 Commercial Accounts 2,729 2,740 2,613 National Accounts 1,577 1,859 2,169 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,485 2,380 2,279 Target Risk Underwriting 2,029 2,182 2,187 Specialized Distribution 954 1,033 1,036 Total Business Insurance Core 12,578 12,968 13,017 Business Insurance Other 2 49 30 Total Business Insurance $ 12,580 $ 13,017 $ 13,047 81 Table of Contents Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Select Accounts $ 2,756 $ 2,711 $ 2,663 Commercial Accounts 2,524 2,518 2,376 National Accounts 996 1,056 1,135 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,396 2,301 2,196 Target Risk Underwriting 1,593 1,665 1,629 Specialized Distribution 939 1,015 1,022 Total Business Insurance Core 11,204 11,266 11,021 Business Insurance Other 16 52 25 Total Business Insurance $ 11,220 $ 11,318 $ 11,046 In Business Insurance Core, gross and net written premiums in 2008 decreased by 3% and 1% from 2007, respectively. The difference in rates of decline between gross and net written premiums in 2008 was concentrated in National Accounts, where a significant portion of gross written premiums is ceded to other insurers and residual market pools. As a result, the decline in gross written premiums did not have a proportional impact on net written premiums. Net written premium growth in the Industry Focused Underwriting, Select Accounts and Commercial Accounts groups generally reflected higher business retention levels and new business volume in several business units within these groups. This was more than offset by premium declines in Specialized Distribution, Target Risk Underwriting and National Accounts. In 2007, Business Insurance Core gross written premiums declined $49 million, or less than 1%, from the comparable 2006 total, whereas net written premiums increased $245 million, or 2%, compared with 2006. The difference in growth rates between gross and net written premiums in 2007 was also concentrated in National Accounts due to the same factor described above. All markets in Business Insurance Core operations, except National Accounts and Specialized Distribution, recorded net written premium growth in 2007, driven by higher new business volume throughout the majority of markets coupled with continued strong business retention rates, offset in some markets by minor decreases in renewal price changes. Net written premium growth in 2007 also benefited from a reduction in ceded premiums related to catastrophe reinsurance coverage. Select Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.76 billion in 2008 increased 2% over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were slightly higher than in 2007. Renewal price changes remained positive but declined from 2007. In the aggregate, new business volume in 2008 was virtually level with 2007. The Company experienced a favorable impact on its new business volume from its enhanced quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses served by Select Accounts. However, new business volume for larger accounts in 2008 declined from 2007 primarily due to competitive market conditions. Net written premiums of $2.71 billion in 2007 grew 2% over 2006. New business volume increased over 2006, due in part to the introduction of the Companys enhanced quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program in 37 states. Enhanced marketing efforts and additional products sold to existing customers also contributed to new business growth in 2007. Business retention rates remained strong in 2007. Renewal price changes in this market remained positive in 2007 but were lower than in 2006, as price increases for coastal coverages were partially offset by declines in renewal price changes for non coastal coverages, which continue to be impacted by competitive market conditions. Commercial Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.52 billion in 2008 were virtually level with the 2007 total. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were higher than in 2007. Renewal 82 Table of Contents price changes were slightly negative in 2008, and were lower than in 2007. New business levels also declined when compared with 2007, reflecting competitive market conditions in this market. Net written premiums of $2.52 billion in 2007 grew 6% over 2006, primarily driven by an increase in new business volume, coupled with continued strong business retention rates. The growth in new business volume reflected the impact of product introductions, additional products sold to existing customers and increased marketing efforts. Renewal price changes in this market declined from 2006 and were negative in 2007, primarily reflecting competitive market conditions. National Accounts. Net written premiums of $1.00 billion in 2008 decreased 6% from 2007. The decline primarily reflected a significant decline in renewal price changes, as the price charged for National Accounts products is adjusted based on actual loss performance, which continues to be favorable due to workers compensation reforms. Overall new business volume increased slightly over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and increased over 2007. Net written premiums of $1.06 billion in 2007 declined 7% from 2006, primarily reflecting competitive market conditions that resulted in lower business volume. Industry Focused Underwriting. Net written premiums of $2.40 billion in 2008 increased 4% over 2007. All business units in this market recorded net written premium growth in 2008. Growth in Construction net written premiums in 2008 was driven by strong business retention levels coupled with continued strong new business volume. An increase in new business volume was the primary factor in the growth in net written premiums in the Oil & Gas business unit. In Agribusiness, net written premium growth was driven by increases in business retention rates and renewal price changes. In the Public Sector business unit, the increase in net written premiums was driven by higher new business volume coupled with continued strong business retention rates. Net written premiums of $2.30 billion in 2007 increased 5% over 2006. The increase was driven by the Construction business unit, where favorable economic conditions contributed to higher new business volume; the Oil & Gas business unit, due to increased business retention rates and strong renewal price changes; and the Public Sector unit, due to an increase in retention rates. In addition, strong new business volume and business retention rates in the Agribusiness business unit contributed to premium growth in 2007. Net written premiums in the Technology business unit in 2007 were level with 2006. Target Risk Underwriting. Net written premiums of $1.59 billion in 2008 decreased 4% from 2007. The decline was concentrated in the National Property business unit, reflecting reductions in renewal price changes and new business volume due to competitive market conditions, and in the Inland Marine business unit, primarily reflecting reductions in business retention rates and new business volume due to general economic conditions. In addition, the Global Accounts business unit experienced a reduction in net written premiums due to declines in business retention rates, renewal price changes and new business. Partially offsetting the declines in these business units was an increase in net written premiums in the Excess Casualty business unit, where renewal price changes remained negative but improved over 2007 and business retention levels increased. Net written premiums of $1.67 billion in 2007 grew 2% over 2006, driven by increases in the Inland Marine and National Property business units. Strong growth in new business volume accounted for the increase in Inland Marine net written premiums, whereas National Propertys premium growth was driven by continued strong business retention rates and a decline in premiums ceded for catastrophe reinsurance coverage, partially offset by a decrease in renewal price changes, which were negative. Growth in these two business units was partially offset by a decline in Excess Casualty net written premiums. Specialized Distribution. Net written premiums of $939 million in 2008 decreased 7% from 2007. The premium decline reflected negative renewal price changes in both the Northland and National 83 Table of Contents Programs business units. In the National Programs business unit, business retention rates increased over 2007, but new business levels declined compared with 2007. In the Northland business unit, business retention rates and new business levels remained strong, but were down slightly compared with 2007. Net written premiums of $1.02 billion in 2007 declined less than 1% from 2006. The decline was primarily due to premium reductions in the National Programs business unit, driven by reductions in new business volume and business retention rates due to competitive market conditions. These reductions were largely offset by premium growth in the Northland business unit due to strong business retention rates and new business volume. In Business Insurance Other, the runoff healthcare, reinsurance and international business produced minimal net written premiums in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Financial, Professional & International Insurance Results of the Companys Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 3,429 $ 3,384 $ 3,321 Net investment income 454 494 429 Other revenues 24 29 26 Total revenues $ 3,907 $ 3,907 $ 3,776 Total claims and expenses $ 3,004 $ 2,981 $ 2,968 Operating income $ 649 $ 675 $ 609 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 51.2 % 50.8 % 53.7 % Underwriting expense ratio 36.0 36.8 35.3 GAAP combined ratio 87.2 % 87.6 % 89.0 % Overview Operating income of $649 million in 2008 decreased by $26 million, or 4%, from 2007. The decline in operating income was primarily driven by an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within International, an increase in the cost of catastrophes and a decline in net investment income, largely offset by a significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 was $84 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $274 and $93 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operating income of $675 million in 2007 was $66 million, or 11%, higher than operating income of $609 million in 2006, primarily driven by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development, higher net investment income and favorable current accident year results. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and non catastrophe losses incurred in the United Kingdom related to flooding. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $93 million in 2007, compared with $14 million in 2006. In March 2007, the Company completed the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, which accounted for $25 million and $78 million of net written premiums for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. 84 Table of Contents Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $3.43 billion in 2008 increased $45 million, or 1%, over the 2007 total of $3.38 billion. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes in 2007, earned premium growth of 2% in 2008 was concentrated in the Construction Services business unit of the Bond & Financial Products group due to changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained in the first quarter of the year. Earned premiums in 2007 were slightly higher than in 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes in both years, earned premiums in 2007 grew 3% over 2006. Earned premium growth was concentrated in the International group, driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange and growth in business volume over the preceding twelve months. Earned premium growth in 2007 also benefited from adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2008 and 2007 as compared with the prior year, as well as a discussion of the Companys net investment income allocation methodology. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses of $1.77 billion in 2008 increased by $32 million, or 2%, over 2007. An increase in the cost of catastrophes and an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within International in 2008 were largely offset by a significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $73 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2007. Hurricanes Ike and Gustav accounted for the majority of catastrophe losses in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $274 million in 2008, primarily driven by better than expected loss experience in the International group. The improvements in longer tail lines of business were attributable to several factors, including enhanced risk control and underwriting strategies throughout the International group. In the property line of business, the improvement primarily resulted from better than anticipated loss development in the United Kingdom, in part due to favorable claim activity relating to 2007 flood losses. In the Bond & Financial Products group, better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within the fidelity and surety product line, resulting from favorable settlements on large claims (primarily from accident years prior to 2005), resulted in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. In 2007, net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $93 million, primarily reflecting better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including enhanced pricing and underwriting strategies throughout the International operations, and the favorable impact of legal and judicial reforms in Ireland. Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $1.74 billion in 2007, a decrease of 3% from 2006, primarily reflecting an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development and the impact of the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, partially offset by the increase in business volume, $37 million of non catastrophe losses incurred in the United Kingdom in 2007 related to flooding and the impact of foreign currency rates of exchange. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 totaled $14 million. General and administrative expenses in 2008 totaled $581 million, $9 million lower than in 2007, primarily reflecting a decrease in commission expense. The Companys implementation of the new fixed 85 Table of Contents agent compensation program in the first quarter of 2007 did not have a material impact on the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. General and administrative expenses totaled $590 million in 2007, an increase of 10% over the 2006 total of $536 million. The increase primarily reflected the segments continued expenditures to support business growth and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 51.2% in 2008 was 0.4 points higher than the 2007 ratio of 50.8%. The 2008 ratio included an 8.0 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and a 2.3 point impact from the cost of catastrophes, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 2.7 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and no impact from catastrophe losses. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 3.4 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within International. The underwriting expense ratio of 36.0% in 2008 was 0.8 points lower than in 2007. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.2 point impact of hurricane related assessments. Adjusting for these assessments, the 2008 expense ratio was 1.0 points lower than the expense ratio in 2007, reflecting reduced acquisition costs. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 50.8% in 2007 was 2.9 points lower than the 2006 ratio of 53.7%. The 2007 ratio included a 2.7 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, compared with a 0.4 point benefit in 2006. Excluding this factor in each year, the 2007 ratio was 0.6 points lower than the 2006 ratio. The underwriting expense ratio of 36.8% in 2007 was 1.5 points higher than the comparable 2006 expense ratio, driven by the increase in expenses supporting business growth. Written Premiums Financial, Professional & International Insurance gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,507 $ 2,614 $ 2,657 International 1,459 1,423 1,324 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,966 $ 4,037 $ 3,981 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,228 $ 2,228 $ 2,255 International 1,240 1,237 1,138 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,468 $ 3,465 $ 3,393 Afianzadora Insurgentes generated gross and net written premiums of $30 million and $25 million, respectively, in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of that operation in 2007, gross written premiums in 2008 declined 1% from 2007, whereas net written premiums increased 1% over 2007. The difference in 2008 gross and net written premium growth rates primarily reflected changes in the terms of certain of the Companys reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained in the Bond & Financial Products group. 86  Table of Contents In the Bond & Financial Products group, net written premiums in 2008 increased 1% over 2007 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes), as the impact of the higher level of business retained in 2008 was largely offset by a decline in premium volume due to competitive market conditions and the economic downturn. In the Bond & Financial Products group (excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and increased slightly over 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 were slightly negative, compared to an increase in the prior year, and new business levels were consistent with 2007. Net written premiums in the International group in 2008 were flat with 2007. For the International group in 2008, business retention rates declined from 2007 due to the intentional non renewal of certain property business in Canada and more competitive market conditions at Lloyds. Renewal price changes in 2008 were flat, compared to a decrease in 2007, and new business volume increased. Gross and net written premiums in 2007 increased 1% and 2%, respectively, over 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, gross and net written premiums increased 3% and 4%, respectively, over 2006. Net written premiums in the Bond & Financial Products group in 2007 increased 1% over 2006 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes), primarily due to increased construction surety business volume resulting from strong economic conditions in the public works sector of the construction industry. For Bond and Financial Products (excluding the surety line of business), business retention rates in 2007 increased over 2006. Renewal price changes in 2007 were positive but down from 2006, and new business levels declined due in part to competitive market conditions. In the International group, net written premiums in 2007 increased $99 million, or 9%, over 2006, primarily reflecting the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and strong business volume at Lloyds and in Canada. Net written premium volume in the International group in 2007 also benefited from adjustments to prior year premium estimates in the Lloyds operation. In the International group in 2007, business retention rates remained strong, new business volume increased over 2006, and renewal price changes declined from 2006. Personal Insurance Results of the Companys Personal Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 6,970 $ 6,803 $ 6,563 Net investment income 421 559 548 Other revenues 75 90 94 Total revenues $ 7,466 $ 7,452 $ 7,205 Total claims and expenses $ 6,855 $ 5,996 $ 5,555 Operating income $ 465 $ 1,019 $ 1,132 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 66.2 % 58.6 % 54.8 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.8 28.2 28.3 GAAP combined ratio 97.0 % 86.8 % 83.1 % Overview Operating income of $465 million in 2008 was $554 million, or 54%, lower than operating income in 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in the cost of catastrophes. Also contributing to the decline in 2008 were the impact of a reduction in net investment income, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses and loss cost trends. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 totaled $618 million, compared 87 Table of Contents with $163 million in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $143 million and $152 million, respectively. In addition, results in 2007 benefited by $71 million from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program, which is described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. Operating income of $1.02 billion in 2007 was $113 million, or 10%, lower than operating income of $1.13 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and an increase in catastrophe losses, partially offset by growth in business volume and net investment income and the $71 million benefit from the new fixed agent compensation program. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 and 2006 totaled $152 million and $359 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $163 million, compared with catastrophe losses of $103 million in 2006. In April 2007, the Company completed the sale of its subsidiary, Mendota Insurance Company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Mendakota Insurance Company and Mendota Insurance Agency, Inc. (collectively, Mendota). These subsidiaries primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $49 million and $187 million of net written premiums in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $6.97 billion in 2008 increased $167 million, or 2%, over earned premiums of $6.80 billion in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in 2007, earned premiums in 2008 increased 3% over 2007. The increase reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business volume, coupled with continued renewal price increases. Earned premiums of $6.80 billion in 2007 grew 4% over 2006, primarily reflecting continued strong business retention rates, increases in renewal price changes, and growth from new business volume, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota in early April 2007. Adjusting for the impact of Mendota in both years, earned premiums in 2007 increased 6% over 2006. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2008 and 2007 as compared with the prior year. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $4.62 billion, an increase of $629 million, or 16%, over 2007, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, non catastrophe weather related losses in the Homeowners and Other product line, the impact of loss cost trends and increased business volume. The cost of catastrophes included in claim and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $541 million, compared with $163 million in 2007. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as tornado, wind and hail storms in various regions of the United States throughout the year. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $143 million and $152 million, respectively. The 2008 net favorable prior year reserve development was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina, and better than expected loss experience from recent accident years for the Homeowners and Other product line. This improvement was driven in part by claim initiatives as well as better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims. In addition, the Homeowners and Other product line experienced improvement in older accident years for the umbrella line as well as favorable experience from accident year 2007 for allied coverages due to less than expected claim activity. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 of $152 million was driven by better than expected automobile loss experience due 88 Table of Contents in part to claim initiatives and fewer than expected late reported homeowners claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of net favorable prior year reserve development in the Homeowners and Other line of business in 2007 was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2007 totaled $3.99 billion, an increase of $390 million, or 11%, over 2006, primarily reflecting a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development, an increase in catastrophe losses and higher business volume, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota. Net favorable prior year reserve development of $359 million in 2006 was driven by better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. In the Automobile line of business, the improvement in 2006 was partially driven by better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices. These changes included practices which have allowed case reserves to be established more accurately earlier in the claim settlement process, thereby changing historical loss development patterns. In addition, industry and Company initiatives to fight fraud in several states led to a decrease in the total number of claims and a change in historical loss development patterns. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was partially driven by a significant decrease in the number of claims, attributable to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. These changes also resulted in a change in historical loss development patterns. In addition, for 2006, non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other loss experience was favorable due to continued evidence of a less than expected impact from "demand surge," which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. Approximately $100 million of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 resulted from a reduction in loss estimates for catastrophes incurred in 2005, primarily due to lower than expected additional living expense losses related to Hurricane Katrina. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $163 million, $60 million higher than the 2006 total of $103 million. Catastrophe losses in 2007 were primarily the result of wildfires in California and several storms throughout the United States, whereas the 2006 total was driven by several wind, rain, hail and snow storms throughout the year in the United States. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.41 billion in 2008, compared with $1.31 billion in 2007. The growth in amortization costs in 2008 primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense in 2008 resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007, as well as an increase in business volume. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.31 billion in 2007, $156 million, or 14%, higher than the comparable 2006 total of $1.15 billion. The increase included $94 million from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in 2007 described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein, as well as growth in business volume, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota General and administrative expenses totaled $829 million in 2008, an increase of $130 million, or 19% over the 2007 total of $699 million. The increase in 2008 included the impact of $77 million of hurricane related assessments. The remaining increase reflected growth in business volume and continued investments to support business growth and product development. General and administrative expenses totaled $699 million in 2007, a decrease of $105 million, or 13%, from the 2006 total of $804 million. The decrease in expenses in 2007 primarily reflected a decline in commission expenses resulting from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, as well as the impact of the sale of Mendota, which were partially offset by expenses related 89 Table of Contents to increased business volume, and continued investments to support business growth and product development. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in 2007 resulted in a $165 million reduction in reported general and administrative expenses, compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 66.2% in 2008 was 7.6 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 58.6%. The 2008 ratio included a 7.8 point impact of the cost of catastrophes and a 2.1 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 2.4 point impact of the cost of catastrophes and a 2.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 2.1 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of an increase in non catastrophe weather related losses in the Homeowners and Other line of business and loss cost trends. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 58.6% in 2007 was 3.8 points higher than the comparable 2006 ratio of 54.8%, primarily reflecting the decline in net favorable prior year reserve development. The ratio in 2007 included a 2.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, compared with a 5.5 point benefit in 2006. Catastrophe losses accounted for 2.4 points and 1.6 points, respectively, of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratios in 2007 and 2006. Excluding the impact of prior year development and catastrophes in both years, the adjusted 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio was 0.3 points lower than the adjusted 2006 ratio. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2008 was 2.6 points higher than the 2007 ratio of 28.2%. The 2008 ratio included a 1.1 point impact from hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 1.0 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. Adjusting for these factors, the 2008 expense ratio was 0.5 points higher than the adjusted expense ratio for 2007, primarily reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development. The underwriting expense ratio in 2007, excluding the 1.0 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, was 0.9 points higher than the 2006 expense ratio of 28.3%, reflecting the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development. Written Premiums The Personal Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by product line were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Automobile $ 3,689 $ 3,673 $ 3,731 Homeowners and Other 3,602 3,471 3,280 Total Personal Insurance $ 7,291 $ 7,144 $ 7,011 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Automobile $ 3,660 $ 3,628 $ 3,692 Homeowners and Other 3,335 3,207 3,019 Total Personal Insurance $ 6,995 $ 6,835 $ 6,711 90 Table of Contents Gross and net written premiums in 2008 both increased 2% over the comparable 2007 totals. Mendota accounted for $49 million of both gross and net written premiums in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in 2007, gross and net written premiums in 2008 both increased 3% over the 2007 totals. In the Automobile line of business, net written premiums increased 2% over 2007, adjusting for the sale of Mendota. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were consistent with 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 remained positive and consistent with 2007. New business levels in 2008 increased over 2007. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2008 grew 4% over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were consistent with 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 remained positive but declined from 2007. New business levels also remained strong and increased slightly over 2007. Gross and net written premiums in 2007 both increased 2% over the respective totals in 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in both years, net written premiums in the Personal Insurance segment in 2007 increased 4% over 2006, driven by continued strong retention rates and increases in renewal price changes, partially offset by a decline in new business volume. In the Automobile line of business, net written premiums in 2007 declined 2%, from 2006. Adjusting for the impact of the sale of Mendota, net written premiums in the Automobile line of business in 2007 increased 2% over 2006. That growth primarily reflected renewal price change increases coupled with continued strong retention rates, partially offset by a decline in new business volume due to competitive market conditions. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2007 grew 6% over 2006, primarily reflecting renewal price change increases, particularly for coastal coverages, coupled with continued strong retention rates. New business volume in this line of business in 2007 declined from 2006, primarily driven by strategies to reduce exposure to losses on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the United States. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota for both years, net written premiums in the Homeowners and Other line of business in 2007 increased 7% over 2006. The Personal Insurance segment had approximately 7.4 million and 7.2 million policies in force at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In the Automobile line of business, policies in force at December 31, 2008 increased 2% over the same date in 2007. Policies in force in the Homeowners and Other line of business at December 31, 2008 grew by 3% over the same date in 2007. Interest Expense and Other (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Net loss $ (257 ) $ (209 ) $ (163 ) The $48 million increase in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2008 compared with 2007 was primarily driven by a $52 million benefit in 2007 resulting from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. The net loss in 2008 included after tax interest expense of $239 million, compared with $224 million in 2007. The net loss in 2007 also included an after tax loss of $25 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% contingently convertible debentures in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. The $46 million increase in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2007 compared with 2006 was driven by the impact of debt redemptions in each year. The net loss in 2007 included the after tax loss of $25 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes. Conversely, the net loss in 2006 was reduced by a $27 million after tax gain realized on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.6% subordinated debentures. After tax interest expense in 91 Table of Contents 2007 totaled $224 million, compared with $207 million in 2006. The net losses in this category for 2007 and 2006 were reduced by the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While the Company has experienced a decrease in asbestos claims over the past several years, the Company continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from the Companys policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against the Companys policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. The focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including the Company. Bankruptcy proceedings have also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the loss and loss expense payments experienced by the Company. The Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience also has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. The Company continues to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholders favor and other Company defenses are not successful, the Companys coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Accordingly, although the Company has seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to the Company but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for the Company. As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. On July 6, 2007, the Company announced that it entered into a settlement to resolve fully all current and future asbestos related coverage claims relating to ACandS, Inc. (ACandS), formerly a national distributor and installer of products containing asbestos. Pursuant to that agreement, the Company placed $449 million into escrow. The settlement was subject to a number of contingencies, all 92 Table of Contents of which have been fulfilled. On August 6, 2008, the Companys $449 million settlement payment was released from the escrow to the ACandS Trust. This transaction was recorded as a paid claim and reduction in claim reserves, and accordingly, there was no effect on the Companys results of operations. The Company is seeking to recover approximately $84 million of the $449 million from reinsurers; such a recovery would also have no effect on the Companys results of operations. In addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, by individuals challenging insurers conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos related bodily injuries. The Company anticipates the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, had entered into settlement agreements, which had been approved by the court in connection with the proceedings initiated by TPC in the Johns Manville bankruptcy court. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders, while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders which required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts March 29, 2006 ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating on jurisdictional grounds the District Courts approval of an order issued by the bankruptcy court prohibiting the prosecution of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims, as well as future similar direct action litigation, against TPC. On February 29, 2008, TPC and certain other parties to the appeals filed petitions for rehearing and or rehearing en banc, requesting reinstatement of the district courts judgment, which were denied. TPC and certain other parties filed Petitions for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuits decision and on December 12, 2008, the Petitions were granted. Unless the Supreme Court reverses the Second Circuits decision, and the bankruptcy courts order is reinstated and becomes final, the settlements will be voided and TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts due under the settlement agreements (other than certain administrative expenses). In that case, the Company intends to litigate the direct action cases vigorously. (For a description of these matters, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder at least annually. In the course of this review, the Company generally considers, among other factors: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of the policyholders potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a products/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. In the third quarter of 2008, the Company completed its annual in depth asbestos claim review. The trends observed over the past three reviews have been generally consistent. The trends include: more stable payment trends for a large proportion of policyholders; a decrease in the number of new claims received; 93 Table of Contents a decrease in the number of large asbestos exposures confronting the Company due to additional settlement activity; fewer and less volatile asbestos related bankruptcies; and the absence of new theories of liability or new classes of defendants. While the Company believes that these trends indicate a reduction in the volatility associated with the Companys overall asbestos exposure, there nonetheless remains a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims. As in prior years, the annual claim review considered active policyholders and litigation cases for potential product and "non product" liability. The Home Office and Field Office categories, which account for the vast majority of policyholders with active asbestos related claims, again experienced an overall reduction in new claim filings in 2008. The number of policyholders tendering asbestos claims for the first time was consistent with the number tendering claims in 2007. Defense and indemnity costs in these categories remain at similar levels to what the Company has experienced in recent years due to the level of trial activity involving impaired individuals. The Companys quarterly asbestos reserve review includes an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder category, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions. Developing payment trends among policyholders in the Home Office, Field Office and Assumed and International categories are also analyzed. In addition, the Company reviews its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid activity. For certain policyholders an estimate of the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and related claim adjustment expense is determined, and for those policyholders the Company calculates, by each policy year, a ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, past ceded experience and reinsurance collections. Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves nor have the Companys evaluations resulted in any way of determining a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment. Net asbestos losses and expenses paid in 2008 were $658 million, compared with $317 million in 2007. The increase in net paid losses was the result of the ACandS payment in the third quarter of 2008. Excluding the ACandS settlement, payments in 2008 were $293 million. Approximately 59% and 20% of total net paid losses in 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to policyholders with whom the Company had entered into settlement agreements limiting the Companys liability. The Company categorizes its asbestos reserves as follows: Number of Policyholders Total Net Paid Net Asbestos Reserves (at and for the year ended December 31, $ in millions) 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Policyholders with settlement agreements 23 22 $ 389 $ 62 $ 749 $ 1,152 Home office and field office 1,651 1,659 217 211 1,983 2,116 Assumed reinsurance and other 41 35 182 224 International 11 9 242 Total 1,674 1,681 $ 658 $ 317 $ 2,914 $ 3,734 The "policyholders with settlement agreements" category includes structured settlements, coverage in place arrangements and, with respect to TPC, Wellington accounts. Reserves are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement. Structured settlements are arrangements under which policyholders and or plaintiffs agree to fixed financial amounts to be paid at scheduled times. Included in this category are TPCs settlements of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions 94 Table of Contents and the Common Law Claims (collectively the Direct Action Settlement). As stated above unless the Second Circuits decision vacating the approval of the settlement is reversed and the bankruptcy courts order approving the settlement is reinstated and becomes final, the Direct Action Settlement will be voided and TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts under the Direct Action Settlement (other than certain administrative expenses). In that event, the reserves assigned to the settlement will be returned to TPCs unallocated asbestos reserve. (For a description of these matters, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Coverage in place arrangements represent agreements with major policyholders on specified amounts of coverage to be provided. Payment obligations may be subject to annual maximums and are only made when valid claims are presented. Wellington accounts refer to the 35 defendants that are parties to a 1985 agreement settling certain disputes concerning insurance coverage for their asbestos claims. Many of the aspects of the Wellington agreement are similar to those of coverage in place arrangements in which the parties have agreed on specific amounts of coverage and the terms under which the coverage can be accessed. The "home office and field office" category relates to all other policyholders and also includes unallocated IBNR reserves. Policyholders are identified for home office review based upon, among other factors: a combination of past payments and current case reserves in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential "non product" exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In addition to IBNR amounts contained in the reserves for home office and field office policyholders and the costs of litigating asbestos coverage matters, the Company has established a reserve for further adverse development related to existing policyholders, new claims from policyholders reporting claims for the first time and policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation and direct actions against the Company. On January 29, 2009, the Company and PPG Industries, Inc ("PPG"), along with approximately 30 other insurers of PPG, agreed in principle on a modified settlement agreement to settle asbestos related coverage litigation under insurance policies issued to PPG. The tentative settlement agreement has been incorporated into the Modified Third Amended Plan of Reorganization ("Amended Plan") proposed as part of the Pittsburgh Corning Corp. ("PCC", which is 50% owned by PPG) bankruptcy proceeding. Pursuant to the proposed Amended Plan, which was filed on January 30, 2009, PCC, along with enumerated other companies (including PPG as well as the Company as a participating insurer), are to receive protections afforded by Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code from certain asbestos related bodily injury claims. The Company had entered into a prior agreement in principle with PPG in 2002 which was contingent upon final court approval of the Second Amended Plan of Reorganization for PCC, but in December 2006, the United States Bankruptcy Court declined to confirm that Plan of Reorganization. As a result of the December 2006 ruling, the Company removed the reserves associated with the prior agreement from the structured settlement category of the asbestos reserve and made a corresponding increase in the unallocated asbestos IBNR reserve. Under the current agreement in principle, the Company has the option to make a series of payments over the next 20 years totaling approximately $620 million to the Trust to be created under the Amended Plan, or it may elect to make a one time discounted payment, which, as of June 30, 2009, would total approximately $430 million (approximately $400 million after reinsurance). The current agreement in principle with PPG is subject to numerous contingencies, including final court approval of the Amended Plan, and the Company has no obligation to make the settlement payment until all contingencies are satisfied. The Companys obligations under this agreement in principle continue to be included in the unallocated asbestos IBNR reserve. Assumed reinsurance exposure primarily consists of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. Prior to the sale of Unionamerica in December 2008, International was exposed to U.S. asbestos liabilities through participations in excess insurance policies, quota share and excess of loss reinsurance policies, and retrocession policies, underwritten in the London insurance 95 Table of Contents market. Details of exposures under the reinsurance and retrocession policies were identified only when the Company was advised by the cedant. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claim and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net asbestos reserves of $330 million and $232 million, respectively. The Company recorded a $70 million pretax increase to asbestos reserves in 2008. The Company recorded no asbestos reserve additions in 2007, and recorded a pretax asbestos reserve addition of $155 million in 2006. The 2008 increase was driven by a change in the estimated costs associated with litigating asbestos coverage matters and a change in estimated losses for certain individual policyholders. The increase was not a result of a change in the Companys assessment of the underlying asbestos environment. Approximately half of the $155 million 2006 pretax reserve adjustment was due to an increase in the projected defense costs for ten policyholders. The majority of the remainder of the reserve adjustment was primarily due to continued litigation activity against smaller, peripheral defendants. Net asbestos reserves totaled $2.91 billion at December 31, 2008, compared with $3.73 billion at December 31, 2007. The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 4,353 $ 4,777 $ 5,103 Ceded (619 ) (726 ) (739 ) Net 3,734 4,051 4,364 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 70 (1 ) 196 Ceded 1 (41 ) Net 70 155 Accretion of discount: Direct 1 Ceded Net 1 Losses paid: Direct 794 423 523 Ceded (136 ) (106 ) (54 ) Net 658 317 469 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 330 Ceded (98 ) Net 232 Ending reserves: Direct 3,299 4,353 4,777 Ceded (385 ) (619 ) (726 ) Net $ 2,914 $ 3,734 $ 4,051 See " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." 96  Table of Contents ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by the Company prior to the mid 1980s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and the Company does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. The resolution of environmental exposures by the Company generally occurs by settlement on a policyholder by policyholder basis as opposed to a claim by claim basis. Generally, the Company strives to extinguish any obligations it may have under any policy issued to the policyholder for past, present and future environmental liabilities and extinguish any pending coverage litigation dispute with the policyholder. This form of settlement is commonly referred to as a "buy back" of policies for future environmental liability. In addition, many of the agreements have also extinguished any insurance obligation which the Company may have for other claims, including but not limited to asbestos and other cumulative injury claims. The Company and its policyholders may also agree to settlements which extinguish any liability arising from known specified sites or claims. These agreements also include appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect the Company. The Companys general purpose in executing these agreements is to reduce the Companys potential environmental exposure and eliminate the risks presented by coverage litigation with the policyholder and related costs. In establishing environmental reserves, the Company evaluates the exposure presented by each policyholder and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any. In the course of this analysis, the Company generally considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, the Company considers the many variables presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the policyholder at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between the Company and the policyholder, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. Conventional actuarial techniques are not used to estimate these reserves. In its review of environmental reserves, the Company considers: past settlement payments; changing judicial and legislative trends; its reserves for the costs of litigating environmental coverage matters; the potential for policyholders with smaller exposures to be named in new clean up actions for 97 Table of Contents both on and off site waste disposal activities; the potential for adverse development; the potential for additional new claims beyond previous expectations; and the potential higher costs for new settlements. The duration of the Companys investigation and review of these claims and the extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the value of the claim to the Company vary significantly and are dependent upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of the policyholder in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the policyholder and the Company and the willingness of the policyholder and the Company to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute pertaining to these claims. Because these factors vary from claim to claim and policyholder by policyholder, the Company cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However, based upon the Companys experience in resolving these claims, the duration may vary from months to several years. The Company continues to receive notices from policyholders tendering claims for the first time. These policyholders generally present smaller exposures, have fewer sites and are lower tier defendants. Further, in many instances clean up costs have been reduced because regulatory agencies are willing to accept risk based site analyses and more efficient clean up technologies. However, the Company has experienced upward development in the anticipated defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. As a result of this development, the Company increased its environmental reserve by $85 million in the second quarter of 2008. The Company continues to experience a decline in both the number of new policyholders tendering claims for the first time and the number of pending lawsuits between the Company and its policyholders pertaining to coverage for environmental claims; however, the Company has experienced a moderation in the rate of that decline in recent years. The Company increased its environmental reserve by $185 million in 2007 primarily in response to that moderation. In 2006, the Company increased environmental reserves by $120 million primarily as a result of higher than expected defense and settlement costs driven in part by adverse judicial developments in certain states regarding the availability of coverage for environmental claims. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claim and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net environmental reserves of $40 million and $33 million, respectively. Net paid losses in 2008 and 2007 were $128 million and $113 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008, approximately 92% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $381 million) was carried in a bulk reserve and included unresolved environmental claims, incurred but not reported environmental claims and the anticipated cost of coverage litigation disputes relating to these claims. The bulk reserve the Company carries is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate volume of in process environmental claims and the Companys experience in resolving those claims. The balance, approximately 8% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $33 million), consists of case reserves. 98 Table of Contents The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 478 $ 413 $ 494 Ceded 12 5 (69 ) Net 490 418 425 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 85 182 108 Ceded 3 12 Net 85 185 120 Losses paid: Direct 123 117 189 Ceded 5 (4 ) (62 ) Net 128 113 127 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 40 Ceded (7 ) Net 33 Ending reserves: Direct 400 478 413 Ceded 14 12 5 Net $ 414 $ 490 $ 418 UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures described above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2008 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies the Company has issued, the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with the Companys previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against the Company, future developments pertaining to the Companys ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims and the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. In addition, uncertainties arise from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants, although in recent years the Company has noted a decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations 99 Table of Contents near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. (Also, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2008 totaled $70.74 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate and 4% in other investments. Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a conservative investment philosophy. A significant majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid intermediate term taxable U.S. government, tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds, and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage backed bonds. The Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2008 totaled $61.28 billion. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The weighted average credit quality of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio, both including and excluding U.S. Treasury securities, was "Aa1" at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Below investment grade securities represented 2.0% and 2.5% of the total fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio, including short term investments, was 4.2 and 4.0 (4.6 and 4.3 excluding short term investments), at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following table sets forth the Companys combined fixed maturity investment portfolio rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist: (at December 31, 2008, in millions) Carrying Value Percent of Total Carrying Value Quality Rating: Aaa $ 30,878 50.4 % Aa 20,282 33.1 A 6,030 9.8 Baa 2,883 4.7 Total investment grade 60,073 98.0 Below investment grade 1,202 2.0 Total fixed maturity investments $ 61,275 100.0 % Included in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2008 were $1.52 billion of debt securities issued by foreign governments and $12.79 billion of corporate fixed maturities and 100 Table of Contents redeemable preferred stock. These credit exposures are diversified across a number of countries and industries. The following table shows the industry sectors for those exposures. (at December 31, 2008, in millions) Carrying Value Average Credit Rating Credit Sector(1) Government: Debt securities issued by foreign governments $ 1,519 Aaa Corporate: Financial Bank 1,821 Aa3 Insurance 497 Aa3 Brokerage and asset management 282 A2 Finance/leasing 189 A3 Total financial 2,789 Industrial 4,972 Baa1 Public utility 1,956 Baa1 Sovereign corporate securities(2) 1,341 Aaa Commercial mortgage backed and project loans(3) 766 Aaa Canadian municipal securities 571 Aa1 Asset backed and other 399 A1 Total corporate 12,794 Total credit exposure $ 14,313 A1 (1)Credit sectors include debt securities issued by foreign governments, corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks. (2)Sovereign corporate securities include corporate securities that are backed by a government and include sovereign banks and securities issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty and the Federal Ship Financing Programs. (3)Included in Commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans are $221 million of securities guaranteed by the U.S. government and $37 million by government sponsored enterprises. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 included $39.06 billion of securities which are obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). The municipal bond portfolio is diversified across the United States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and includes general obligation and revenue bonds issued by states, cities, counties, school districts, and similar issuers. Included in the municipal bond portfolio are $5.45 billion of advance refunded or escrowed to maturity bonds. Advance refunded and escrowed to maturity bonds are bonds for which an irrevocable trust has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest. Such escrow accounts are verified as to their sufficiency by an external auditor and almost exclusively involve U.S. Treasury securities. The following 101 Table of Contents table shows the geographic distribution of the remaining $33.61 billion of municipal bonds which are not advance refunded or escrowed to maturity. State (in millions) State General Obligation Local General Obligation Revenue Total Market Value Average Quality Rating(1) Texas $ 379 $ 1,988 $ 1,362 $ 3,729 Aaa/Aa1 California 138 1,472 382 1,992 Aa1 Illinois 347 995 605 1,947 Aa1 Virginia 184 713 712 1,609 Aaa/Aa1 Florida 525 79 944 1,548 Aa1 Washington 420 699 383 1,502 Aa1 Maryland 499 576 247 1,322 Aaa/Aa1 Ohio 467 330 458 1,255 Aa1 Minnesota 427 606 211 1,244 Aaa/Aa1 Georgia 476 387 345 1,208 Aaa/Aa1 New York 49 191 930 1,170 Aa1 Arizona 454 627 1,081 Aa1 North Carolina 522 436 118 1,076 Aaa Michigan 157 337 530 1,024 Aa1 All Others(2) 3,255 3,509 5,135 11,899 Aa1 Total $ 7,845 $ 12,772 $ 12,989 $ 33,606 Aa1 (1)Rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. Ratings shown are the higher of the rating of the underlying issuer or the insurer in the case of securities enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of issuer default. (2)No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total non advance refunded or escrowed to maturity municipal bonds. The Company bases its investment decision on the credit characteristics of the municipal security; however, within its municipal bond portfolio are a number of securities that were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade during 2008 of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 81% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2008. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2008 with and without the third party insurance. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company held commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS, including FHA project loans) of $766 million and $935 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008, approximately $258 million of these securities, or the loans backing such securities, contain guarantees by the United States Government or a government sponsored enterprise and $20 million were comprised of Canadian non guaranteed securities. The average credit rating of the $508 million of non guaranteed securities at December 31, 2008 was "Aaa," and 93% of those securities were issued in 2004 and prior years. The CMBS portfolio is supported by loans that are diversified across economic 102 Table of Contents sectors and geographical areas. The Company does not believe this portfolio exposes it to a material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of these securities. The Company makes investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) that typically have high credit quality, offer good liquidity and are expected to provide an advantage in yield compared to U.S. Treasury securities. The Companys investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches which offer the most favorable return given the risks involved. One significant risk evaluated is prepayment sensitivity. While prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration) and its effect on total return cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the investment process generally favors securities that control this risk within expected interest rate ranges. The Company does invest in other types of CMO tranches if a careful assessment indicates a favorable risk/return tradeoff. The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company held CMOs classified as available for sale with a fair value of $2.84 billion and $3.59 billion, respectively (in addition to the CMBS securities of $766 million and $935 million, respectively, described above). Approximately 35% and 31% of the Companys CMO holdings are guaranteed by or fully collateralized by securities issued by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, the Company held $3.22 billion and $3.52 billion of GNMA, FNMA, FHLMC (excluding FHA project loans which are included with CMBS) mortgage backed pass through securities classified as available for sale at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average credit rating of all of the above securities was "Aaa" at both dates. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $206 million and $286 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.3% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $47 million and $89 million of such securities in 2008 and the fourth quarter of 2007, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Aa2" and "Aaa" at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately $81 million of the Companys asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2008. The Companys real estate investments include warehouses and office buildings and other commercial land and properties that are directly owned. The Companys other investments are primarily comprised of private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures, mortgage loans, venture capital (through direct ownership and limited partnerships) and trading securities, which are subject to more volatility than the Companys fixed maturity investments. While these asset classes have historically provided a higher return than fixed maturities, in 2008 the returns were significantly lower than in prior periods and, in the aggregate, produced negative investment income, reflecting market conditions. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the carrying value of the Companys other investments was $3.04 billion and $3.37 billion, respectively. 103 Table of Contents The Company has engaged in securities lending activities from which it generates net investment income from the lending of certain of its investments to other institutions for short periods of time. Borrowers of these securities provide collateral equal to at least 102% of the market value of the loaned securities plus accrued interest. This collateral is held by a third party custodian, and the Company has the right to access the collateral only in the event that the institution borrowing the Companys securities is in default under the lending agreement. Therefore, the Company does not recognize the receipt of the collateral held by the third party custodian or the obligation to return the collateral. The loaned securities remain a recorded asset of the Company. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company changed its securities lending requirements in light of the recent market conditions to accept only cash as collateral for securities on loan and restricted the manner in which that cash was invested. These actions resulted in a significant reduction in the amount of securities on loan. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $8 million of securities on loan to others, compared with $1.99 billion at December 31, 2007. The Company has not incurred any investment losses in its securities lending program for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included as a separate component of accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Fixed maturities $ (294 ) $ 768 $ 422 Equity securities (82 ) 15 37 Venture capital 8 17 108 Other investments 115 138 113 Unrealized investment gains (losses) before tax (253 ) 938 680 Tax expense (benefit) (109 ) 318 227 Net unrealized investment gains (losses) at end of year $ (144 ) $ 620 $ 453 Net pretax unrealized investment losses totaled $253 million at December 31, 2008, compared with net pretax unrealized investment gains of $938 million at December 31, 2007. The net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 reflected the impact of rising interest rates on longer dated fixed maturity securities (primarily due to the widening of credit spreads generally), as well as net unrealized investment losses on equity securities, which reflected current market conditions. Net pretax unrealized investment gains at December 31, 2007 increased by $258 million over year end 2006, primarily driven by the fixed maturity portfolio. The increase in net unrealized investment gains on fixed maturities was primarily driven by the impact of declining market interest rates on both taxable and tax exempt securities, which were partially offset by an increase in credit spreads and a decrease in unrealized investment gains in the venture capital portfolio, primarily due to sale activities. In May 2007, the Company completed a bundled sale of a substantial portion of its venture capital portfolio, which resulted in the realization of $81 million of previously unrealized net investment gains. 104  Table of Contents Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains (losses) were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Fixed maturities $ 324 $ 37 $ 7 Equity securities 74 7 4 Other investments 22 26 37 Total $ 420 $ 70 $ 48 For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $324 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $210 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers (of which $70 million related to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries), $81 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value and $33 million resulting from the intent or potential to sell various holdings prior to a recovery in market value; $74 million in the equity portfolio consisting of $26 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value, $26 million related to securities with respect to which it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period and $22 million resulting from the intent or potential to sell prior to a recovery in market value; $14 million in the venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings, consisting of $6 million related to six holdings which were externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value and ten holdings which experienced fundamental economic deterioration; and $8 million in other investments of which $6 million related to the fundamental decline in the financial condition of a privately held investment and $2 million resulted from the intent or potential to sell prior to a recovery in market value. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $37 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $23 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value, and $14 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position; $7 million in the equity portfolio related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value; $10 million in the real estate portfolio, related to the fundamental decline in the financial condition of one real estate development property; and $16 million in the venture capital portfolio on 14 holdings. Three of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period. Nine holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). The remaining two holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. 105 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $7 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $6 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value and $1 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position; $4 million in the equity portfolio when it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period; $33 million in the venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings. Four of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Six holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Four of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. Two of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period; and $4 million in other investments (excluding venture capital). The loss recorded was the result of one mortgage loan refinancing at less favorable terms. The market disruptions that occurred in the second half of 2008 led to many of the 2008 impairment losses and resulted in increased unrealized losses compared with previous years. The Company continually evaluates current developments in the market that have the potential to affect the valuation of the Companys investments. The following table summarizes, for all fixed maturities and equity securities available for sale and for equity securities reported at fair value for which fair value is less than 80% of amortized cost at December 31, 2008, the gross unrealized investment loss by length of time those securities have continuously been in an unrealized loss position of greater than 20% of amortized cost: Period For Which Fair Value Is Less Than 80% of Amortized Cost (in millions) Less Than 3 Months Greater Than 3 Months, Less Than 6 Months Greater Than 6 Months, Less Than 12 Months Greater Than 12 Months Total Fixed maturities: Mortgage backed securities $ 222 $ 36 $ 1 $ $ 259 Other 329 73 12 414 Total fixed maturities 551 109 13 673 Equity securities 41 30 71 Total $ 592 $ 139 $ 13 $ $ 744 These unrealized losses at December 31, 2008 represent approximately 1% of the combined fixed maturity and equity security portfolios on a pretax basis and approximately 2% of shareholders equity on an after tax basis. For fixed maturity investments where fair value is less than the carrying value and the Company did not reach a decision to impair, the Company continues to have the intent and ability to hold such investments to a projected recovery in value, which may not be until maturity. At December 31, 2008, below investment grade securities comprised 2.0% of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio. Included in below investment grade securities at December 31, 2008 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $1.34 billion and a fair value of $1.08 billion, resulting in a net pretax unrealized investment loss of 106 Table of Contents $258 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented approximately 2% of both the total amortized cost and the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2008. These securities accounted for 15% of the total pretax unrealized investment loss in the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2008. Following are the pretax realized losses on investments sold during the year ended December 31, 2008: (in millions) Loss Fair Value Fixed maturities $ 168 $ 2,735 Equity securities 4 17 Total $ 172 $ 2,752 Purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Companys ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. CATASTROPHE MODELING The Company uses various analyses and methods, including computer modeling techniques, to analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. The Company uses these analyses and methods to make underwriting and reinsurance decisions designed to manage its exposure to catastrophic events. In making underwriting and reinsurance decisions, for hurricane and earthquake exposures, the Company uses third party proprietary computer modeling in an attempt to estimate the likelihood that the loss from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed a particular amount. The tables below set forth the estimated probabilities that losses from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed the indicated loss amounts (expressed in dollars and as a percentage of the Companys common equity). For example, on the basis described below the tables, the Company estimates that there is a one percent chance that the Companys loss from a single U.S. hurricane occurring in a one year timeframe would equal or exceed $1.3 billion, or 5 percent of the Companys common equity at December 31, 2008. Dollars (in billions) Likelihood of Exceedance(1) Single Hurricane Single Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) $ 1.1 $ 0.4 1.0% (1 in 100) $ 1.3 $ 0.6 0.4% (1 in 250) $ 2.1 $ 0.9 0.1% (1 in 1,000) $ 4.8 $ 2.1 107 Table of Contents Percentage of Common Equity Likelihood of Exceedance Single Hurricane Single Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) 4 % 2 % 1.0% (1 in 100) 5 % 3 % 0.4% (1 in 250) 8 % 4 % 0.1% (1 in 1,000) 19 % 8 % (1)An event that has, for example, a 2% likelihood of exceedance is sometimes described as a "1 in 50 year event." As noted above, however, the probabilities in the table represent the likelihood of losses from a single event equaling or exceeding the indicated threshold loss amount in a one year timeframe, not over a multi year timeframe. Also, because the probabilities relate to a single event, the probabilities do not address the likelihood of more than one event occurring in a particular period, and, therefore, the amounts do not address potential aggregate catastrophe losses occurring in a one year timeframe. The threshold loss amounts in the tables above are net of reinsurance, after tax and exclude loss adjustment expense, which historically has been less than 10% of loss estimates. The amounts for hurricanes reflect U.S. exposures and include property exposures, other than offshore energy and marine exposures, property residual market exposures and an adjustment for certain non property exposures. The amounts for earthquakes reflect U.S. and Canadian exposures and include property exposures and workers compensation exposures. The Company does not believe that the inclusion of hurricane or earthquake losses arising from other geographical areas or other exposures would materially change the estimated threshold loss amounts. This information in the tables is based on the Companys in force portfolio and catastrophic reinsurance program as of December 31, 2008. Catastrophe modeling requires a significant amount of judgment and a number of assumptions and relies upon inputs based on experience, science, engineering and history. As a result, such models may fail to account for risks that are outside the range of normal probability or that are otherwise unforeseeable. Catastrophe modeling assumptions include, among others, the portion of purchased reinsurance that is collectible after a catastrophic event, which may prove to be materially incorrect. Consequently, catastrophe modeling estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. In the tables above, the uncertainty associated with the estimated threshold loss amounts increases significantly as the likelihood of exceedance decreases. In other words, in the case of a relatively more remote event (e.g., 1 in 1000), the estimated threshold loss amount is relatively less reliable. Actual losses from an event could materially exceed the indicated threshold loss amount. In addition, more than one such event could occur in any period. Moreover, the Company is exposed to the risk of material losses from other than property and workers compensation coverages arising out of hurricanes and earthquakes, and it is exposed to catastrophe losses from perils other than hurricanes and earthquakes, for example, floods, tornadoes and acts of terrorism. There are no industry standard methodologies or assumptions for projecting catastrophe exposure. Accordingly, catastrophe estimates provided by different insurers may not be comparable. For more information about the Companys exposure to catastrophe losses, see "Item 1A Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." 108 Table of Contents REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools, and is generally subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product offerings. After reinsurance is purchased, the Company has limited ability to manage the credit risk to a reinsurer. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. The Companys reinsurance recoverables totaled $14.23 billion at December 31, 2008, a decline of $1.41 billion from year end 2007, primarily reflecting the sale of Unionamerica, various commutation agreements and collections on reinsurance recoverables, including those related to prior years hurricane losses. The Company has also entered into Master Security Agreements with certain reinsurers. These agreements define conditions that require the reinsurer to provide collateral. The specific conditions and the amounts and form of collateral to be provided by these agreements vary based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the reinsurers legal structure and trading history with the Company. One such agreement has been reached with XL Re America, a member of XL Capital Group. In addition, the Company is beneficiary under a trust arrangement with XL Re America which partially covers reinsurance recoverables from XL Re America at December 31, 2008. The following table presents the Companys top five reinsurer groups by reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2008 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of each reinsurer group at February 19, 2009: Reinsurer Group Reinsurance Recoverable A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Reinsurer Swiss Re Group $ 1,009 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Munich Re Group 831 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Berkshire Hathaway Group 495 A++ highest of 16 ratings Transatlantic Holdings, Inc.(1) 495 A third highest of 16 ratings XL Capital Group 465 A third highest of 16 ratings (1)As a result of the September 29, 2008 announcement that a Special Committee of Transatlantic Holdings, Inc.s (TRH) independent directors is evaluating proposals received from American International Group, Inc. (AIG) relating to the possible disposition of AIGs 59% common stock interest in TRH, as well as possible business combination transactions involving TRHs outstanding shares, the reinsurance recoverables from TRH are now being reported separately. These amounts were previously reported combined with the reinsurance recoverables from AIG (totaling $71 million at December 31, 2008 exclusive of TRH). At December 31, 2008, $2.56 billion of reinsurance recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, trust agreements and funds held. Included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. Structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle 109 Table of Contents certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as the Company retains the contingent liability to the claimant. In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, the Company would be required to make such payments. The following table presents the Companys top five groups by structured settlements at December 31, 2008 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of the Companys predominant insurer from each insurer group at February 19, 2009: Group Structured Settlements A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Insurer Old Mutual $ 1,075 A third highest of 16 ratings MetLife 554 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Genworth 485 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Symetra 296 A third highest of 16 ratings ING Group 242 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies have been negatively impacted by deteriorating economic conditions, including unprecedented financial market disruption. A number of such companies have been subjected to downgrades and or negative outlook changes by various ratings agencies, including those with which the Company conducts business. The Company considers these factors in assessing the adequacy of its allowance for uncollectible amounts. OUTLOOK The Companys objective is to enhance its position as a consistently profitable market leader and a cost effective provider of property and casualty insurance in the United States and in selected international markets. A variety of factors continue to affect the property and casualty insurance market and the Companys core business outlook for 2009, including general economic conditions, competitive conditions in the markets served by the Companys business segments, loss cost trends, interest rate trends and the investment environment. General Economic Conditions. The United States and other countries around the world have been experiencing deteriorating economic conditions, including unprecedented financial market disruption. If this trend in economic conditions continues or deteriorates further in 2009, it could adversely affect the Companys results in future periods. During an economic downturn, demand for the Companys products may decrease, and credit risk associated with agents, customers, reinsurers and the Companys investment portfolio may be adversely impacted. In addition, in an inflationary environment, loss costs may increase. Such costs may also increase in an economic downturn, due to an increase in fraudulent reporting of claims, reduced maintenance of insured property or increased frequency of small claims. Moreover, although the Company does not anticipate needing additional capital in the near term due to the Companys strong current financial position, financial market disruption may make it difficult for the insurance industry generally, and the Company in particular, to raise additional capital, when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. As discussed below, losses on the Companys investment portfolio may adversely impact the Companys shareholders equity and statutory surplus. As further discussed below, the interest rate environment and general economic conditions could further impact the net investment income the Company is able to earn on both its fixed maturity investments and other invested assets. Competition. The Company expects property casualty insurance market conditions to continue to be very competitive in 2009, particularly for new business. If the current disruption in the insurance marketplace continues into 2009, there may be increased opportunity for new business, but competition for that new business may also be significant. For example, competitors that are experiencing financial difficulties may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with the Companys 110 Table of Contents economic standards in an effort to maintain their business. The pricing environment for new business generally has less of an impact on underwriting profitability than renewal price changes, particularly in an environment of high retention rates, which the Company has experienced over the past several years. In the Business Insurance and the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments, the Company expects renewal price changes in 2009 to be flat with or modestly increase over their 2008 levels. With regard to the components comprising renewal price changes, the potential slight improvement in rates in 2009 in some product lines is expected to be largely offset by a decline in exposures. In the Personal Insurance segment in 2009, the Company expects that automobile and homeowners renewal price changes will increase slightly over their 2008 levels. These expectations for the pricing environment, when combined with expected modestly increased loss costs, will likely result in somewhat reduced underwriting profitability. Loss Cost Trends. Loss cost trends are primarily driven by changes in claim frequency and claim severity. The industry has generally experienced unprecedented low levels of non catastrophe related claim frequency over the last several years. The Company expects this level of claim frequency to continue in 2009 in certain lines of business, while claim frequency is expected to increase modestly for other lines of business. The Company also expects severity to increase modestly for non catastrophe related claims. In the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments, the Company experienced a higher than anticipated level of large, non weather related losses during 2008. In the Personal Insurance segment, the Company experienced a higher than anticipated level of non catastrophe weather related losses during 2008. If these are trends that continue in 2009, they could result in reduced underwriting profit. The overall trend of increased frequency and severity of catastrophic Gulf and Atlantic Coast storms experienced in recent years may continue for the foreseeable future. Given the potential increase in frequency and severity of storms, the Company continues to reassess its definition of, and exposure to, coastal risks. These risks are reflected in the pricing and terms and conditions it will offer in coastal areas. Due in part to the increased frequency and severity of the Gulf and Atlantic Coast storms, there has been some disruption in the market for coastal wind insurance, most significantly in personal lines, as insurers, including the Company, have reduced capacity and increased prices. The continued disruption in market conditions, along with the potential for increased frequency and severity of coastal storms, could result in a decrease in the amount of coastal wind coverage that the Company is able or willing to write. In recent periods, the Company has recorded net favorable prior year reserve development, driven by better than expected loss experience in all of the Companys segments for prior loss years. If better than expected loss experience continues, the Company may record additional net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009. In that case, the Company may also concurrently revise favorably its current year loss estimates. However, better than expected loss experience may not continue or may reverse, in which case the Company may record no favorable prior year reserve development or net unfavorable prior year reserve development in future periods. In that case, the Company may revise current year loss estimates upward in future periods. Interest Rate Trends and the Investment Environment. Changes in the general interest rate environment affect the returns available on new investments. While a rising interest rate environment enhances the returns available on new fixed maturity investments, thereby favorably impacting net investment income, it reduces the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, and therefore, shareholders equity. A decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments, thereby negatively impacting net investment income, but increases the market value of existing investments and therefore, shareholders equity. In 2008 and 2007, short term interest rates declined, reducing the interest income on the Companys short term investment portfolio. In the second half of 2008, credit spreads on other than short term investments, which represent the difference between a risk free yield (i.e. the yield on U.S. Treasury securities) and the actual yield on a fixed income 111 Table of Contents investment, increased significantly. This resulted in a decline in the market value of existing other than short term fixed maturity investments, and therefore, shareholders equity. The Company had a net pretax unrealized loss of $294 million in its fixed maturities portfolio at December 31, 2008, compared with a net pretax unrealized gain of $768 million at December 31, 2007. The market disruption that occurred in the second half of 2008 resulted in a lack of liquidity in certain sectors of the credit markets and a widening of credit spreads generally. At December 31, 2008, the Company had unrealized investment losses of $744 million on securities for which fair value was less than 80% of cost of the security. Approximately $592 million of the unrealized investment losses had continuously been in an unrealized loss position of greater than 20% of cost for less than three months. If the market disruption continues and interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) remain steady or rise, the amount of securities in an unrealized loss of greater than 20% may age and significant additional unrealized investment losses could occur in the portfolio. These circumstances may result in significant realized losses through sales of securities or other than temporary impairment charges in 2009. At December 31, 2008, approximately 5% of the Companys invested assets were comprised of equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures, mortgage loans, venture capital investments and trading securities, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed maturity investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond the Companys control may affect the value of these non fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income. For example, reduced liquidity in the capital markets could adversely impact the Companys investment portfolio, particularly investments in private equity limited partnerships, real estate partnerships and hedge funds, resulting in a decline in transaction volume in these asset classes, and as a result, lower net investment income. For the year ended December 31, 2008, these non fixed maturity investments collectively produced negative investment income. If the current unfavorable economic environment persists in 2009, the Company may continue to experience negative returns from these investments. The Company is not able to predict future market conditions or their impact on net investment income. Net investment income is an important contributor to the Companys results of operations, and the Company expects the investment environment to remain challenging in 2009, particularly with respect to its non fixed maturity investment portfolio. For a discussion of potential risks that could impact the Companys financial condition or results of operations, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" in this report. 112  Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. At December 31, 2008, total cash, short term invested assets and other readily marketable securities aggregating $2.15 billion were held at the holding company. The assets held at the holding company, combined with other sources of funds available, primarily additional dividends from operating subsidiaries, are sufficient to meet the holding companys current liquidity requirements. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. The Companys insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. A maximum of $3.07 billion is available in 2009 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The holding company received $3.70 billion of dividends from its domestic insurance subsidiaries in 2008. The Company has a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission which permits it to issue securities. The Company also has a $1.0 billion line of credit facility with several major banks that expires in the second quarter of 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company replaced Lehman Brothers Bank, FSBs $60 million participation in this facility through an assignment to another financial institution. This line of credit also backs up the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2008. The Company is not reliant on its commercial paper program to meet its operating cash flow needs. The Company currently utilizes letters of credit issued by major banks to support its operations at Lloyds. As a result of movements in foreign currency exchange rates, additional capital, which the Company expects to provide by obtaining additional letters of credit issued by major banks, will be required in the near term to support the Companys operations at Lloyds. If letters of credit are not available at a reasonable price or at all in the future, the Company may have to seek alternative means of supporting its operations at Lloyds, which could include utilizing holding company funds on hand. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $3.14 billion, $5.29 billion and $4.77 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Cash flows in 2008 reflected an increase in claim payments (including the impact of higher catastrophe losses and the $449 million asbestos settlement payment related to ACandS, Inc., which is discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" section herein), and a reduction in reinsurance recoveries compared with 2007. In addition, the Company made a $450 million contribution to its pension plan in 2008. No pension plan contribution was made in 2007. Cash flows in each of 2007 and 2006, as compared to the preceding year, reflected higher levels of collected premiums and net investment income, lower claim payments on catastrophe losses, as well as lower runoff claim payments. Cash flows from operations in 2007 and 2006 benefited from significant collections on reinsurance recoverables in both years, including those related to 2005 hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. These 113 Table of Contents factors were partially offset by an increase in tax payments resulting from higher profitability, expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development, and higher interest payments. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities totaled $162 million, $2.53 billion and $3.06 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Fixed maturity securities accounted for the majority of investment purchases in all three years. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2008 declined $4.08 billion from year end 2007, reflecting the $2.12 billion of common share repurchases made during 2008, a $1.19 billion pretax decline in the unrealized appreciation of investments since year end 2007 (to an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008), the sale of Unionamerica and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by investment purchases resulting from strong cash flows from operations. The net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 reflected the impact of rising interest rates on longer dated fixed maturity securities primarily due to the widening of credit spreads generally. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio generally produces a duration that exceeds the estimated duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The average duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 4.2 and 4.0 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, provide assurance of the Companys ability to fund the payment of claims without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled $2.87 billion, $2.95 billion and $1.59 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The 2008 total primarily reflected common share repurchases, the repayment of debt and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by the net proceeds from debt issuances and employee stock option exercises. The 2007 and 2006 totals primarily reflected common share repurchases, the early redemption of debt, the repayment of maturing debt and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by the issuance of debt and proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Debt Transactions. 2008. On March 15, 2008, the Companys $400 million, 3.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. On May 13, 2008, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% senior notes that will mature on May 15, 2018. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2008. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed 114 Table of Contents (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points for the senior notes. On December 15, 2008, two medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $149 million, each bearing an interest rate of 6.38%, matured and were fully paid. 2007. In January 2007, the Company redeemed $81 million of 8.47% subordinated debentures originally issued in 1997 and due January 10, 2027. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after January 10, 2007. In January 1997, USF&G Capital II, a business trust, issued $100 million of capital securities, the proceeds of which, along with $3 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by USF&G Corporation and subsequently assumed by the Company after the merger of The St. Paul Companies Inc. (SPC) and Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC). During the period prior to redemption, the Company had repurchased and retired $22 million of the debentures in open market transactions. Upon the Companys redemption of the remaining $81 million of subordinated debentures in January 2007, USF&G Capital II in turn used the proceeds to redeem its remaining capital securities outstanding. USF&G Capital II was then liquidated, and the Company received a $3 million distribution of capital. The Company recorded a $3 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, due to the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date, less the redemption premium paid. In March 2007, the Company issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures due March 15, 2067 for net proceeds of $986 million (after original issue discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses). The debentures were issued at a discount, resulting in an effective interest rate of 6.447%. The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 6.25% from the date of issuance to, but excluding, March 15, 2017, payable semi annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15. From and including March 15, 2017, the debentures will bear interest at an annual rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 2.215%, payable quarterly on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year. The Company has the right, on one or more occasions, to defer the payment of interest on the debentures. The Company will not be required to settle deferred interest until it has deferred interest for five consecutive years or, if earlier, made a payment of current interest during a deferral period. The Company may defer interest for up to ten consecutive years without giving rise to an event of default. Deferred interest will accumulate additional interest at an annual rate equal to the annual interest rate then applicable to the debentures. The debentures carry a 60 year final maturity and a scheduled maturity date in year thirty. During the 180 day period ending not more than fifteen and not less than ten business days prior to the scheduled maturity date, the Company is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell enough qualifying capital securities, or at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit repayment of the debentures at the scheduled maturity date. If any debentures remain outstanding after the scheduled maturity date, the unpaid amount will remain outstanding until the Company has raised sufficient proceeds from the sale of qualifying capital securities or, at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit the repayment in full of the debentures. If there are remaining debentures at the final maturity date, the Company is required to redeem the debentures using any source of funds. Qualifying capital securities are securities (other than common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity, and debt exchangeable for preferred equity) which generally are treated by the ratings agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. 115 Table of Contents The Company can redeem the debentures at its option, in whole or in part, at any time on or after March 15, 2017 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued but unpaid interest. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option prior to March 15, 2017 (a) in whole at any time or in part from time to time or (b) in whole, but not in part, in the event of certain tax or rating agency events relating to the debentures, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed and the applicable make whole amount, in each case plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with the offering of the debentures, the Company entered into a "replacement capital covenant" for the benefit of holders of one or more designated series of the Companys indebtedness (which will initially be the 6.750% senior notes due 2036). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, if the Company redeems the debentures at any time prior to March 15, 2047 it can only do so with the proceeds of securities that are treated by the rating agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. In March 2007, the Companys $500 million, 5.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In April 2007, the Company completed the redemption of its outstanding $893 million, 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes due in 2032 (the notes). The notes were originally issued by Travelers Property Casualty Corp., and the Company assumed certain obligations relating to the notes pursuant to a Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 1, 2004. Each note had a principal amount of $25.00. The redemption price for each note was $25.5625 plus $0.009375 of accrued and unpaid interest. Any note called for redemption could be surrendered for conversion into common stock before the close of business on April 17, 2007. Each note was convertible into 0.4684 shares of common stock of The Travelers Companies, Inc. Holders of $36 million of the notes tendered their certificates in exchange for the issuance of 670,910 of the Companys common shares. The remaining $857 million of notes were redeemed for cash, along with accrued interest to the date of redemption. The Company recorded a $39 million pretax loss ($25 million after tax) in other revenues in the second quarter of 2007 related to the redemption, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining unamortized issuance costs. In May 2007, the Company issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due June 15, 2012 (the 2012 senior notes), $450 million aggregate principal amount of 5.750% senior notes due December 15, 2017 (the 2017 senior notes), and $800 million aggregate principal amount of 6.250% senior notes due June 15, 2037 (the 2037 senior notes). The total net proceeds of these three senior note issuances, after original issuance discounts and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, were approximately $1.47 billion. Interest on each of the senior note issuances is payable semi annually on June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2007. Each series of senior notes is redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed, or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury Rate plus 12.5 basis points for the 2012 senior notes, 15 basis points for the 2017 senior notes and 20 basis points for the 2037 senior notes. The Company applied a portion of the net proceeds of this offering to repay approximately $442 million of senior notes maturing on August 16, 2007 and to repay approximately $42 million of medium term notes maturing in the third quarter of 2007. The remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Prior to applying these proceeds, the Company invested them in investment grade, marketable securities. In August 2007, the Companys $442 million, 5.01% senior notes matured and were fully paid. 116 Table of Contents In 2007, medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $72 million and interest rates ranging from 6.85% to 7.37% matured and were fully paid. 2006. In June 2006, the Company issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2016 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2036. The notes were issued at a discount, resulting in effective interest rates of 6.30% and 6.86%, respectively. Net proceeds from the issuances (after original issue discount and expenses) totaled approximately $786 million, which the Company applied to the redemption of approximately $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures (described in more detail below), $150 million of 6.75% senior notes that matured on November 15, 2006 and $56 million of medium term notes that matured in the second half of the year. In November 2006, the Company redeemed $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures originally issued in 2001 and due October 15, 2050. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after November 13, 2006. In November 2001, St. Paul Capital Trust I, a business trust, issued $575 million of preferred securities, the proceeds of which, along with $18 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by the Company. Upon the Companys redemption of its subordinated debentures in November 2006, St. Paul Capital Trust I in turn used the proceeds to redeem its preferred securities. St. Paul Capital Trust I was then liquidated, and the Company received an $18 million distribution of capital. The Company recorded a $42 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, representing the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date. A portion of the proceeds from the June 2006 debt issuances described above was used to fund this redemption. The Companys debt to capital ratio of 19.5% at December 31, 2008 was slightly below its 20% targeted level. The amounts of debt obligations, other than commercial paper, that becomes due in 2009, 2010 and 2011, are $143 million, $273 million and $11 million, respectively. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $715 million, $742 million and $702 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. On February 4, 2009, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share, payable March 31, 2009 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2009. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Share Repurchases. In January 2008, the board of directors authorized an additional $5 billion for the repurchase of the Companys common shares. Under the authorization, repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, pursuant to preset trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorization does not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price, catastrophe losses and other market conditions. Share repurchase levels in prior periods may not be indicative of future repurchase activity. Notwithstanding the Companys financial strength and liquidity, in light of the recent disruption in the financial markets, the Company reduced its level of share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to prior quarters and will likely reduce its share repurchases in 2009 as compared to the level of repurchases in preceding years, although the Companys plans may change depending on market conditions, potential investment opportunities, the Companys share price performance or other factors. This potential reduction in 117 Table of Contents share repurchases in 2009 reflects uncertainty with regard to current economic conditions and not a fundamental change in the Companys capital management strategy. The following table summarizes repurchase activity in 2008 and remaining repurchase capacity at December 31, 2008. Quarterly Period Ending Number of shares purchased Cost of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Remaining capacity under share repurchase program March 31, 2008 20,831,251 $ 1,000,332,704 $ 48.02 $ 4,931,853,967 June 30, 2008 15,287,182 750,014,344 49.06 4,181,839,623 September 30, 2008 6,197,529 271,984,984 43.89 3,909,854,639 December 31, 2008 2,712,550 99,997,100 36.86 3,809,857,539 Total 45,028,512 $ 2,122,329,132 $ 47.13 $ 3,809,857,539 Since the inception of the repurchase authorizations in May 2006, the Company has repurchased a cumulative total of 123.9 million shares for a total cost of $6.19 billion, or $49.98 per share, through December 31, 2008. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company acquired 0.8 million, 1.7 million and 1.2 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (at December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 Debt: Short term $ 242 $ 649 Long term 5,938 5,577 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs 1 16 Total debt 6,181 6,242 Preferred shareholders equity 89 112 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 26,130 25,834 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources (900 ) 670 Total shareholders equity 25,319 26,616 Total capitalization $ 31,500 $ 32,858 The $1.36 billion decrease in total capitalization from year end 2007 reflected the impact of $2.12 billion of common share repurchases, a net after tax $764 million decline in net unrealized appreciation on investments (to a net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008), $715 million of dividends to shareholders, a $405 million decline primarily due to a reduction in the fair value of pension plan assets, and, to a lesser degree, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These factors were partially offset by net income in 2008. The net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 reflected the impact of rising interest rates on longer dated fixed maturity securities primarily due to the widening of credit spreads generally. Line of Credit Agreement. The Company maintains an $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2008, with back up liquidity consisting of a bank 118 Table of Contents credit agreement. On June 10, 2005, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion, five year revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions. Pursuant to covenants in the credit agreement, the Company must maintain an excess of consolidated net worth over goodwill and other intangible assets of not less than $10 billion at all times. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total consolidated debt to the sum of total consolidated debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control. At December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and all other covenants related to its outstanding debt instruments. There was no amount outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2008. Shelf Registration. In December 2008, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a universal shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities to replace its expiring universal shelf registration statement. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2008 and 2007, the Company issued $500 million and $2.50 billion, respectively, of debt (as described above) under the prior shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Authorization. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $3.81 billion of capacity remaining under its share repurchase authorization approved by the board of directors. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2008, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claims related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2008 that are expected to be settled in cash. The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. 119  Table of Contents The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments, estimated claims and claims related payments (gross of the estimated reinsurance recoveries) and liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, at December 31, 2008 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt(1) Medium term notes $ 21 $ $ 21 $ $ Senior notes 4,650 250 750 3,650 Junior subordinated debentures 1,254 1,254 Zero coupon convertible notes 141 141 Private placement notes 15 2 13 Total debt principal 6,081 143 284 750 4,904 Interest 5,384 371 708 662 3,643 Total long term debt obligations 11,465 514 992 1,412 8,547 Operating leases(2) 802 180 289 173 160 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 237 77 94 66 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 80 20 40 20 Other purchase commitments(5) 110 61 9 5 35 Total purchase obligations 427 158 143 91 35 Long term unfunded investment commitments (6) 1,562 374 505 454 229 Estimated claims and claims related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 55,735 11,862 15,015 9,103 19,755 Claims from large deductible policies(8) Loss based assessments(9) 231 32 52 25 122 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 49 49 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 283 53 139 9 82 Total estimated claims and claims related payments 56,298 11,996 15,206 9,137 19,959 Liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits(12) 1,280 752 528 Total $ 71,834 $ 13,974 $ 17,663 $ 11,267 $ 28,930 (1)See note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term debt obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 8. (2)Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3)Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. 120 Table of Contents (4)In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through 2012. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. (5)Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. (6)Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures and certain private equity investments. (7)The amounts in "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in note 5 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance receivables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance. (See below.) The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance receivables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance receivables $ 13,553 $ 2,705 $ 3,448 $ 2,221 $ 5,179 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expenses, net $ 42,182 $ 9,157 $ 11,567 $ 6,882 $ 14,576 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2008. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance receivables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance receivables have 121 Table of Contents been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements.) (8)Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. "Claims from large deductible policies" represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as "contractholder payables" and "contractholder receivables," respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/receivables $ 6,350 $ 1,619 $ 1,811 $ 937 $ 1,983 (9)The amounts in "Loss based assessments" relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. (10)The amounts in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11)The amounts in "Payout from ceded funds withheld" represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (12)Amounts are included in the consolidated balance sheet as "Other liabilities" and "Deferred tax asset." Some of the Companys liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits have associated temporary differences for which offsetting current or deferred tax assets exist and are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Receivables related to unrecognized tax benefits $ 1,186 $ 663 $ 523 $ $ The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future 122 Table of Contents payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to its qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $3.07 billion is available by the end of 2009 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The holding company received $3.70 billion of dividends from its domestic insurance subsidiaries in 2008. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2008, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, certain investments and various indemnifications, including those related to the sale of business entities. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment valuation and impairments, and goodwill impairments. Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and 123 Table of Contents projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing loss reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries, reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The loss reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, may be materially different in amount than current loss reserves favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established loss reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also additional risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophe, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation, which totaled $3.70 billion at December 31, 2008. While the ongoing review of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." 124 Table of Contents Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2008 2007 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 6,529 $ 11,809 $ 18,338 $ 7,180 $ 12,388 $ 19,568 Property 1,414 858 2,272 1,069 963 2,032 Commercial multi peril 1,816 2,140 3,956 1,860 2,499 4,359 Commercial automobile 2,413 1,511 3,924 2,450 1,640 4,090 Workers compensation 9,419 6,872 16,291 9,373 6,474 15,847 Fidelity and surety 697 1,168 1,865 878 1,026 1,904 Personal automobile 1,448 1,043 2,491 1,466 998 2,464 Homeowners and personal other 633 800 1,433 545 739 1,284 International and other 2,120 1,956 4,076 3,054 3,017 6,071 Property casualty 26,489 28,157 54,646 27,875 29,744 57,619 Accident and health 68 9 77 71 10 81 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 26,557 $ 28,166 $ 54,723 $ 27,946 $ 29,754 $ 57,700 The $2.98 billion decline in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves since December 31, 2007 primarily reflected favorable prior year reserve development during 2008, payments related to operations in runoff (including asbestos and environmental payments) and the sale of Unionamerica, partially offset by catastrophe losses incurred. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company made a $449 million settlement payment related to ACandS, Inc., formerly a national distributor and installer of products containing asbestos, that reduced claim and claim adjustment expense reserves. (Also, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril and International and other lines in the summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see "Asbestos Claims and Litigation", "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and "Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any 125 Table of Contents particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Claims made policies generally cover, subject to requirements in individual policies, claims reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The occurrence form, which accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company data and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating 126 Table of Contents IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being "low frequency/high severity," while lines without this "large claim" sensitivity are referred to as "high frequency/low severity." Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, for high frequency/low severity lines the impact of individual claims is relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process, and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimates selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends reestablish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty ("risk factors") generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method, but in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, causing actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, to be different in amount than the reserves being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. 127  Table of Contents While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods.) While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, actuaries evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analyses may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. The methods described above are generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method, which uses the earned premium for the current year 128 Table of Contents multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through an analysis of prior periods experience, using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is because the underlying causes of the trends observed need to be evaluated, which may require the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. 129 Table of Contents General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for "construction defect" claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an "occurrence" basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a "claims made" basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately. These exposures include asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such "defense within the limits" policies are most common for "claims made" products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the "event" triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also increase the potential recognition lag (i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure). The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a 130 Table of Contents materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. In addition to the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development and S curve methods for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company relies more heavily on the BF method than on the paid and case incurred development methods. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provisions New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.5% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 5% to 14% (averaging 5%) for the Company and from 3% to 7% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 28% of the Companys total loss reserves. 131 Table of Contents The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was 5% for 2008, 2% for 2007 and +2% for 2006. The 2008 change primarily reflected significant favorable prior year reserve development, driven by several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2007 change was driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2006 change largely resulted from directors and officers and errors and omissions adjustments due to worse than expected large loss activity and additional information from detailed claim reviews, primarily associated with accident years 2002 and 2003. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to 26% (averaging 6%) for the Company, and from 14% to 7% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year 132 Table of Contents changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Property reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 22% for 2008, 18% for 2007 and 11% for 2006. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable development in the 2007 accident year for certain large property, ocean marine and inland marine claim exposures, and improvements in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006 as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. The 2006 change primarily reflected less "demand surge" inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe and catastrophe losses. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property includes larger customers. See "Property risk factors" and "General liability risk factors," discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 16% to 2% (averaging 5%) for the Company, and from 3% to 6% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial multi peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. 133 Table of Contents As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 16% for 2008, 8% for 2007 and 4% for 2006. The 2008 change was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Also contributing to the change was improvement in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2007 and 2006 changes were attributable to better than expected results due to, among other factors, increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components: bodily injury liability; property damage liability; collision claims; and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards 134  Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 9% (averaging 1%) for the Company, and from 3% to 9% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 7% for 2008, 10% for 2007 and 7% for 2006. The 2008 change was a result of better than expected loss development, primarily for accident years 2005 through 2007, which was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2007 change was due to better than expected loss development, for recent accident years, as a result of more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The 2006 change was due to better than expected loss development, primarily for accident years 2003 through 2005, which was attributable to favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds (1)These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Their duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 135 Table of Contents Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules ("inflation") Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 2% to 2% (averaging 0%) for the Company, and from 1% to 4% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 30% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% for 2008, and 0% for 2007 and 2006. The 2008 change was primarily driven by higher than anticipated medical costs related to claims from older accident years. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The 136 Table of Contents frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.4% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 138% (averaging 21%) for the Company, and from 11% to 24% (averaging 6%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. 137 Table of Contents The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 10% for 2008, 1% for 2007 and 5% for 2006. The 2008 change was a result of better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within this product line, primarily driven by favorable settlements on large claims from older accident years. The 2006 change was due to better than expected large loss activity. Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Personal automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. 138 Table of Contents Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to 1% (averaging 4%) for the Company, and from 4% to 0% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 5% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% for 2008, 5% for 2007 and 7% for 2006. The decreases in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services 139 Table of Contents Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 31% to 3% (averaging 11%) for the Company, and from 8% to 11% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however, the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 13% for 2008, 3% for 2007 and 22% for 2006. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina, by claim initiatives, by better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims and by improvements in older accident years for the umbrella line. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of the change was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. The 2006 change was due to lower than expected additional living expenses related to Hurricane Katrina as well as better than expected non catastrophe related frequency and severity, due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims, and continued evidence of a less than expected impact from demand surge. International and other International and other includes products written by International and other products not discussed above. The principal component of "other" claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that 140 Table of Contents are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct) and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to "prove" not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, "claims made" language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. 141 Table of Contents Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. From time to time, as a result of the long tailed nature of the underlying liabilities, coverage complexities and potential for disputes, the Company considers the commutation of reinsurance contracts. Changes in estimated reinsurance recoverables and commutation activity could result in additional income statement charges. Total reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2008 declined by $1.41 billion from the same date in 2007, primarily reflecting the sale of Unionamerica, various commutation agreements and collections on reinsurance recoverables, including those related to prior year hurricane losses. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2008 declined by $70 million from the same date in 2007, generally due to settlement activity and commutations. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business and have the obligation of the participating insurance companies on a joint and several basis supporting these cessions. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 9,376 $ 10,731 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (618 ) (688 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 8,758 10,043 Structured settlements 3,517 3,615 Mandatory pools and associations 1,957 1,983 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 14,232 $ 15,641 Investment Valuation and Impairments Fair Value Measurements The Companys estimates of fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities are based on the framework established in FASB Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157). The framework is based on the inputs used in valuation and gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and requires that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. The disclosure of fair value estimates in the FAS 157 hierarchy is based on whether the significant inputs into the 142 Table of Contents valuation are observable. In determining the level of the hierarchy in which the estimate is disclosed, the highest priority is given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the Companys significant market assumptions. The three levels of the hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company has the ability to access. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets; or valuations based on models where the significant inputs are observable (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities, etc.) or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 Valuations based on models where significant inputs are not observable. The unobservable inputs reflect the Companys own assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use. Valuation of Investments Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements The fair value of a financial instrument is the estimated amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties, i.e., not in a forced transaction. The estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold in an immediate sale, e.g., a forced transaction. Additionally, the valuation of fixed maturity investments is more subjective when markets are less liquid due to the lack of market based inputs, which may increase the potential that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of an investment is not reflective of the price at which an actual transaction would occur. For investments that have quoted market prices in active markets, the Company uses the quoted market prices as fair value and includes these prices in the amounts disclosed in Level 1 of the hierarchy. The Company receives the quoted market prices from a third party, nationally recognized pricing service (pricing service). When quoted market prices are unavailable, the Company utilizes a pricing service to determine an estimate of fair value, which is mainly for its fixed maturity investments. The fair value estimates provided from this pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. If quoted market prices and an estimate from a pricing service are unavailable, the Company produces an estimate of fair value based on internally developed valuation techniques, which, depending on the level of observable market inputs, will render the fair value estimate as Level 2 or Level 3. The Company bases all of its estimates of fair value for assets on the bid price as it represents what a third party market participant would be willing to pay in an arms length transaction. Fixed Maturities The Company utilizes a pricing service to estimate fair value measurements for approximately 99% of its fixed maturities. The pricing service utilizes market quotations for fixed maturity securities that have quoted prices in active markets. Since fixed maturities other than U.S. Treasury securities generally do not trade on a daily basis, the pricing service prepares estimates of fair value measurements for these securities using its proprietary pricing applications which include available relevant market information, benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings, and matrix pricing. Additionally, the pricing service uses an Option Adjusted Spread model to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The pricing service evaluates each asset class based on relevant market information, relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. The market inputs utilized in the pricing 143 Table of Contents evaluation, listed in the approximate order of priority, include: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, and industry and economic events. The extent of the use of each market input depends on the asset class and the market conditions. Depending on the security, the priority of the use of inputs may change or some market inputs may not be relevant. For some securities additional inputs may be necessary. The pricing service utilized by the Company has indicated that they will only produce an estimate of fair value if there is objectively verifiable information to produce a valuation. If the pricing service discontinues pricing an investment, the Company would be required to produce an estimate of fair value using some of the same methodologies as the pricing service, but would have to make assumptions for market based inputs that are unavailable due to market conditions. The fair value estimates of most fixed maturity investments are based on observable market information rather than market quotes. Accordingly, the estimates of fair value for such fixed maturities, other than U.S. Treasury securities, provided by the pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. The estimated fair value of U.S. Treasury securities is included in the amount disclosed in Level 1 as the estimates are based on unadjusted market prices. The Company reviews the estimates of fair value provided by the pricing service and compares the estimates to the Companys knowledge of the market to determine if the estimates obtained are representative of the prices in the market. The Company produces a report monthly that lists all price changes from the previous month in excess of 10%. The Company reviews the report and will challenge any prices deemed not to be representative of fair value. In addition, the Company has implemented various other processes including randomly selecting purchased or sold securities and comparing execution prices to the estimates from the pricing service as well as reviewing reports that contain securities whose valuation did not change from their previous valuation (stale price review). These processes were implemented in mid 2007 and have not highlighted any significant issues with the fair value estimates received from the pricing service. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company began using additional independent pricing services to further test the primary pricing services valuation of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio, and will continue to use such additional pricing services in future quarters. Using certain month end data from October and November 2008, the secondary pricing services provided fair value estimates on approximately 98% of the fixed maturity portfolio, and those estimates, in the aggregate, were not materially different than the estimated fair value provided by the Companys primary pricing service. The Company holds privately placed corporate bonds and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal matrix that is based on market information regarding interest rates, credit spreads and liquidity. The underlying source data for calculating the matrix of credit spreads relative to the U.S. Treasury curve are the Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index and the Merrill Lynch High Yield BB Rated Index. The Company includes the fair value estimates of these corporate bonds in Level 2, since all significant inputs are market observable. As many of these securities are issued by public companies, the Company compares the estimates of fair value to the fair values of these companies publicly traded debt to test the validity of the internal pricing matrix. While the vast majority of the Companys municipal bonds are included in Level 2, the Company holds a small number of municipal bonds which are not valued by the pricing service and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal pricing matrix with some unobservable inputs that are significant to the valuation. Due to the limited amount of observable market information, the Company includes the fair value estimates for these particular bonds in Level 3. Additionally, the Company holds a small amount of fixed maturities that have characteristics that make them unsuitable for matrix pricing. For these fixed maturities, the Company obtains a quote from a broker (typically a market 144 Table of Contents maker). Due to the disclaimers on the quotes that indicate that the price is indicative only, the Company includes these fair value estimates in Level 3. Equities Public Common and Preferred For public common and preferred stocks, the Company receives prices from a nationally recognized pricing service that are based on observable market transactions and includes these estimates in the amount disclosed in Level 1. Infrequently, current market quotes in active markets are unavailable for certain non redeemable preferred stocks held by the Company. In these instances, the Company receives an estimate of fair value from the pricing service that provides fair value estimates for the Companys fixed maturities. The service utilizes some of the same methodologies to price the non redeemable preferred stocks as it does for the fixed maturities. The Company includes the estimate in the amount disclosed in Level 2. Other Investments Venture Capital Investments and Non Public Common and Preferred Equity Securities The Company holds investments in venture capital investments and non public common and preferred stocks, with a fair value estimate of $224 million, reported in other investments, where the fair value estimate is determined either internally or by an external fund manager based on recent filings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth and other business and market sector fundamentals. The Company holds shares of common stock of one private company with a fair value estimate of $162 million at December 31, 2008, for which the estimate of fair value is provided by a third party appraiser on behalf of the investee and adjusted for a liquidity discount which takes into consideration the transfer restrictions on the common stock. Due to the significant unobservable inputs in these valuations, the Company includes the total fair value estimate for all of these investments at December 31, 2008 in the amount disclosed in Level 3. Derivatives The Company uses derivatives generally to hedge its net investment in a foreign subsidiary. The Company also holds non public warrants in a public company and has convertible bonds containing embedded conversion options that are reported separately from the host bond contract. For the derivatives used to hedge the net investment of a foreign subsidiary, the Company uses quoted market prices to estimate fair value and includes the fair value estimate, which was in a liability position of approximately $2 million at December 31, 2008, in Level 1. The Company estimates fair value for the warrants using an option pricing model with observable market inputs. Because the warrants are not market traded and information concerning market participants is not available, the Company includes the fair value estimate of $87 million at December 31, 2008 in the amount disclosed in Level 3 other investments. The Company separately values the embedded conversion options based on observable market inputs and includes the estimate of fair value in Level 2. Valuation of Investments Not Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements Short term Securities The Companys short term investments consist mainly of high quality commercial paper (primarily A1/P1) with an average of 39 days to maturity at December 31, 2008. Additionally, it is the Companys policy to not invest in structured products for its short term investments. The Company believes that there is insignificant credit risk in its short term portfolio and that amortized cost approximates fair value. The Company includes short term investments in its impairment monitoring to identify any credit issues. 145  Table of Contents Real Estate Real estate is recorded on the purchase date at the purchase price, which generally represents fair value, and is supported by internal analysis or external appraisals, using discounted cash flow analyses and other acceptable valuation techniques. Real estate is subsequently carried at the Companys cost, net of depreciation. Other Investments The Companys investment portfolio includes other investments not carried at fair value which include private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships (together, partnerships), joint ventures, and mortgage loans. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investments in partnerships and joint ventures, and amortized cost is used for mortgage loans. The partnerships generally report investments on their balance sheet at fair value. The financial statements prepared by the investee are received by the Company on a lag basis, with the lag period generally dependent upon the type of underlying investments. The private equity partnerships and real estate partnerships provide financial information quarterly which is generally available to investors, including the Company, within three to six months following the date of the reporting period. The hedge funds provide financial information monthly, which is generally available to investors within one month following the date of the reporting period. The Company regularly requests financial information from the partnerships prior to the receipt of the partnerships financial statements, and records any material information obtained from these requests in the financial statements. Investment Impairments The Company recognizes an impairment loss when an invested assets value declines below cost, adjusted for accretion, amortization and previous other than temporary impairments (new cost basis), and it is determined that the decline is other than temporary. Some of the factors considered in evaluating whether a decline in fair value is other than temporary include: (1) the Companys ability and intent to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; (2) the recoverability of principal and interest for fixed maturity securities, or cost for equity securities; (3) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed maturity securities, or cost for equity securities; and (4) the financial condition, near term and long term prospects for the issuer, including the relevant industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices. When the Company determines that an invested asset is other than temporarily impaired, the invested asset is written down to fair value, and the amount of the impairment is included in earnings as a realized investment loss. The fair value then becomes the new cost basis of the investment, and any subsequent recoveries in fair value, other than amounts accreted to the expected recovery amount, are recognized at disposition. Due to the subjective nature of the Companys analysis and estimates of fair value, along with the judgment that must be applied in the analysis, it is possible that the Company could reach a different conclusion whether or not to impair a security if it had access to additional information about the investee. Additionally, it is possible that the investees ability to meet future contractual obligations may be different than what the Company determined during its analysis, which may lead to a different impairment conclusion in future periods. The Company recognizes a realized loss when impairment is deemed to be other than temporary even if a decision to sell an invested asset has not been made. When the Company has decided to sell a temporarily impaired available for sale invested asset and the Company does not expect the fair value of the invested asset to fully recover prior to the expected time of sale, the invested asset is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired in the period in which the decision to sell is made. 146 Table of Contents The Companys process for identifying and reviewing invested assets for impairments during any quarter includes the following: Identification and evaluation of investments that have possible indications of other than temporary impairment, which includes an analysis of all investments with gross unrealized investment losses that have fair values less than 80% of cost; Review and evaluation of external and internal portfolio managers recommendations for other than temporary impairments of any other investments based on the investees current financial condition, liquidity, near term recovery prospects, the outlook for the business sectors in which the investee operates and other factors (in addition to reviewing investments with an estimated fair value of less than 80% of cost); Consideration of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or triggers that may or may not cause individual investments to qualify as having other than temporary impairments; and Determination of the status of each analyzed investment as other than temporary or not, with documentation of the rationale for the decision. Sales of Temporarily Impaired Invested Assets The Company may, from time to time, sell invested assets subsequent to the balance sheet date that were considered temporarily impaired at the balance sheet date. Such sales are generally due to events occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date that result in a change in the Companys intent or ability to hold an invested asset. The types of events that may result in a sale include significant changes in the economic facts and circumstances related to the invested asset, significant unforeseen changes in an individual subsidiarys liquidity needs, or changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment. Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities An investment in a fixed maturity or equity security which is available for sale is impaired if its fair value falls below its cost or new cost basis, and the decline is considered to be other than temporary. A fixed maturity security is other than temporarily impaired if it is probable that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due under the securitys contractual terms, the Company does not have the intent to hold the security, or the Company does not expect to recover its cost over a forecasted recovery period. Additionally, for certain securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (including asset backed securities), the Company updates its estimate of the present value of expected cash flows over the life of the security on a quarterly basis. If management determines that the fair value of the securitized financial asset and the present value of the assets cash flows estimated at the current financial reporting date are less than the present value of the estimated cash flows at the date of purchase (or previous financial reporting date), then an other than temporary impairment is recognized and the securitized financial asset is written down to fair value. Equity securities are other than temporarily impaired when it becomes apparent that the Company will not recover its cost over a forecasted recovery period. For securities expected to be sold, an other than temporary impairment charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security to recover prior to the expected date of sale. For public securities managed by external managers, the Company cannot assert the intent and ability to hold the securities to recovery and therefore considers the securities impaired when the fair value is below the cost basis at the end of the reporting period. 147 Table of Contents Real Estate Investments On at least an annual basis, the Company obtains independent appraisals for substantially all of its real estate investments. In addition, the carrying value of a real estate property is reviewed for impairment on a quarterly basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The review for impairment considers the valuation from the independent appraisal, when applicable, and incorporates an estimate of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the real estate property. An impairment loss is recognized if the expected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the real estate property. The impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Other Investments Mortgage Loans A mortgage loan is considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect principal and interest amounts due. For mortgage loans that are determined to be impaired, a reserve is established for the difference between the amortized cost and the fair market value of the underlying collateral. In estimating fair value, the Company uses interest rates reflecting the current real estate financing market returns. The Company did not have any impaired mortgage loans at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Venture Capital Investments and Non Public Common and Preferred Equity Securities Externally managed venture capital investments and non public common and preferred equity securities are reviewed quarterly for other than temporary impairment by the external fund manager and the Companys portfolio managers. Internally managed venture capital investments and non public and preferred equity securities are reviewed quarterly by the Companys portfolio managers. The Companys portfolio managers and the external fund manager review and consider a variety of factors in determining the valuation of the investments and the potential for other than temporary impairments. Factors considered include the following: The investees most recent financing events; An analysis of whether a fundamental deterioration or improvement has occurred; Whether the investees progress has been substantially more or less than expected; Whether or not the valuations have improved or declined significantly in the investees market sector; Whether or not the external fund manager and the Company believe it is probable that the investee will need financing within six months at a lower price than the Companys carrying value; and Whether or not the Company has the ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery, enabling the Company to receive value equal to or greater than its cost. An impairment loss is recognized if, based on the specific facts and circumstances, it is probable that the Company will not be able to recover all of its cost of an individual holding. The quarterly valuation procedures described above are in addition to the portfolio managers ongoing responsibility to frequently monitor developments affecting those invested assets, paying particular attention to events that might give rise to impairment write downs. 148 Table of Contents Other Investments Excluding Venture Capital Investments and Non Public Common and Preferred Equity Securities Included in other investments are private equity limited partnerships, investments in hedge funds and real estate partnerships that generally report investments on their balance sheet at fair value and are accounted for by the Company using the equity method of accounting. The Company reviews these investments for impairment no less frequently than quarterly and monitors the performance throughout the year through discussions with the managers/general partners. If the Company becomes aware of an impairment of a partnerships investments at the balance sheet date prior to receiving the partnerships financial statements, it will recognize an impairment by recording a reduction in the carrying value of the partnership with a corresponding charge to net investment income. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairments The Company performs a review, on at least an annual basis, of goodwill held by the reporting units which are the Companys three operating and reportable segments: Business Insurance, Financial, Professional & International Insurance, and Personal Insurance. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units and compares it to their carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying values of the reporting units exceed their fair value, the amount of the impairment is calculated and goodwill is adjusted accordingly. In 2008, the Company changed its methodology for estimating the fair value of its reporting units from a multiple of earnings model to a discounted cash flow model. This change was made as a result of the effects of a severe disruption of the credit and equity markets and significant changes in the insurance industry that caused disparities between the multiple of earnings of the Company and the observed multiple of earnings of its competitors. The discounted cash flow model is an income approach to valuation that is based on a more detailed analysis for deriving a current fair value of reporting units and is more representative of the Companys current and expected future financial performance. The discounted cash flow model relies on the Companys assumptions of its future operating earnings, discounted utilizing an estimate of the Companys cost of equity. Other indefinite lived intangible assets held by the Company are also reviewed for impairment on at least an annual basis. The classification of the asset as indefinite lived is reassessed, and an impairment is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Intangible assets that are deemed to have finite useful life are amortized over their useful lives. The carrying amount of intangible assets with a finite useful life is regularly reviewed for indicators of impairment in value. Impairment is recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows and is measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. The Companys review did not result in an impairment of its indefinite lived or finite lived intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A Risk Factors." FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 149 Table of Contents The Company is currently required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a proposed Roadmap for comment for the potential use in filings with the SEC of financial statements for U.S. issuers prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), instead of in accordance with GAAP. The Roadmap contains milestones that, if achieved, may lead the SEC to decide in 2011 to require the use of IFRS for large accelerated filers, including the Company, in 2014. The SEC also is proposing to permit U.S. companies to elect to file using IFRS, as adopted by the IASB, as early as 2010, if the company is in an industry group that reports using IFRS more commonly than any other set of standards, and if the company is one of the 20 largest companies in the industry worldwide based on market capitalization. The IASB and the FASB are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that may involve methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current GAAP. The FASB and the IASB are also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. The Company is not able to predict whether it will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS) may impact the Companys financial statements in the future. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Specifically, earnings guidance, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans, statements about the potential impact of the recent disruption in the investment markets and other economic conditions on the Companys investment portfolio and underwriting results are forward looking, and the Company may make forward looking statements about its results of operations (including, among others, premium volume, net and operating income, investment income, return on equity, expected current returns and combined ratio), and financial condition (including, among others, invested assets and liquidity); the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among others, asbestos claim payment patterns); the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; investment performance; investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; and strategic initiatives. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors". and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2008. The Companys 150 Table of Contents market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $70.74 billion and $74.82 billion, respectively, of which 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 5.5% and 6.5%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $206 million and $286 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.3% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $47 million and $89 million of such securities in 2008 and the fourth quarter of 2007, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Aa2" and "Aaa" at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately $81 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2008. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal bond portfolio, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 81% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate and adversely impact the financial condition and or revenues of states, municipalities and political subdivisions, the value of the Companys holdings could be adversely impacted. However, the Company believes, based on current market conditions, that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2008. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2008 with and without the third party insurance and includes pre funded and escrowed to maturity securities, as well as securities issued without third party insurance. The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $38.79 billion and $38.55 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be 151 Table of Contents enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.9% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. No other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 2.2% of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2008 or 2007. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio 152 Table of Contents durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2008 and 2007 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.5 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of both December 31, 2008 and 2007. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. As a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the Companys consolidated balance sheet, primarily claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the Companys exposure to foreign currencies. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $386 million and $485 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 153  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company). 2008 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2008 Consolidated Results of Operations Net income of $2.92 billion, or $4.90 per share basic and $4.82 diluted Net earned premiums of $21.58 billion Catastrophe losses of $1.41 billion pretax ($919 million after tax) Net favorable prior year reserve development of $1.54 billion pretax ($1.00 billion after tax) GAAP combined ratio of 91.9% Pretax net investment income of $2.79 billion ($2.30 billion after tax) Net realized investment losses of $415 million pretax ($271 million after tax) 2008 Consolidated Financial Condition Total investments of $70.74 billion; fixed maturities and short term securities comprise 94% of total investments Total assets of $109.75 billion Total debt of $6.18 billion, resulting in a debt to total capital ratio of 19.5% Repurchased 45.0 million common shares for total cost of $2.12 billion under share repurchase authorization Shareholders equity of $25.32 billion; book value per common share of $43.12 Holding company liquidity of $2.15 billion CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW The Company provides a wide range of property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals, primarily in the United States and in selected international markets. 69 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations (for the year ended December 31, in millions except per share amounts) 2008 2007 2006 Revenues Premiums $ 21,579 $ 21,470 $ 20,760 Net investment income 2,792 3,761 3,517 Fee income 390 508 591 Net realized investment gains (losses) (415 ) 154 11 Other revenues 131 124 211 Total revenues 24,477 26,017 25,090 Claims and expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses 12,993 12,397 12,244 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 3,880 3,706 3,339 General and administrative expenses 3,518 3,352 3,458 Interest expense 370 346 324 Total claims and expenses 20,761 19,801 19,365 Income before income taxes 3,716 6,216 5,725 Income tax expense 792 1,615 1,517 Net income $ 2,924 $ 4,601 $ 4,208 Net income per share Basic $ 4.90 $ 7.04 $ 6.12 Diluted $ 4.82 $ 6.86 $ 5.91 GAAP combined ratio Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 59.4 % 56.6 % 57.5 % Underwriting expense ratio 32.5 30.8 30.6 GAAP combined ratio 91.9 % 87.4 % 88.1 % The Companys discussions of net income and segment operating income included in the following discussion are presented on an after tax basis. Discussions of the components of net income and segment operating income are presented on a pretax basis, unless otherwise noted. Discussions of earnings per common share are presented on a diluted basis. Overview Net income of $4.82 per common share in 2008 was 30% lower than the $6.86 per common share in 2007. Net income in 2008 totaled $2.92 billion, 36% lower than $4.60 billion in 2007. The lower rate of decline in per share income compared with the rate of decline in actual income reflected the impact of the Companys significant common share repurchases. The decrease in net income in 2008 was primarily due to a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes and a significant decline in net investment income. Also contributing to the decline were net realized investment losses, a small increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses, the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, the impact of loss cost trends and a decline in fee income. Net income in 2008 reflected an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of a subsidiary. In 2007, net income included a net pretax benefit of $163 million due to the implementation of a new fixed, value based compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents which resulted in a reduction in commission expense compared to what would have otherwise been reported, due to a change in the timing of expense recognition. These factors were partially offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development, which totaled $1.54 billion in 2008, 70 Table of Contents compared with $546 million in 2007. The cost of catastrophes in 2008, net of reinsurance and including hurricane related assessments of $141 million (discussed below), totaled $1.41 billion, compared with $167 million in 2007. Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as several other storms throughout the United States, accounted for the cost of catastrophes in 2008. Net income in 2007 also included a benefit of $86 million resulting from the favorable resolution of various prior year federal tax matters and a pretax loss of $39 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% contingently convertible debentures. Hurricane related assessments include assessments from state created insurance and windstorm insurance entities such as Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in Florida, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. Assessments are levied on insurers writing business in those states to fund the operating deficits of such entities during periods of significant storm activity. Hurricane related assessments are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses" as the amounts paid to such entities are not insured losses of the Company. Net income of $6.86 per common share in 2007 was 16% higher than the $5.91 per common share in 2006. Net income in 2007 totaled $4.60 billion, 9% higher than $4.21 billion in 2006. The higher rate of growth in per share income compared with the rate of growth in actual income in 2007 over 2006 reflected the impact of the Companys significant common share repurchases since its repurchase program began in the second quarter of 2006. The increase in net income in 2007 reflected growth in net investment income, a higher level of net favorable prior year reserve development, an increase in net realized investment gains, favorable current accident year results and increased business volume, partially offset by an increase in expenses and a decline in fee income. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $546 million in 2007, compared with net favorable prior year reserve development of $394 million in 2006. Expenses in 2007 included a net pretax benefit of $163 million due to the implementation of the new fixed, value based compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $167 million, compared with $103 million in 2006. Net income in both 2007 and 2006 included after tax benefits of $86 million due to the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. The 2007 total also included net realized investment gains of $154 million, compared with net realized investment gains of $11 million in 2006. Revenues Earned Premiums Earned premiums in 2008 totaled $21.58 billion, an increase of $109 million, or less than 1%, over 2007. In March 2007, the Company sold its Mexican surety subsidiary, Afianzadora Insurgentes, S.A. de C.V. (Afianzadora Insurgentes), which accounted for $27 million of earned premiums in 2007 prior to its sale. In April 2007, the Company sold Mendota Insurance Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, Mendota), which primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $46 million of earned premiums in 2007 prior to its sale. Adjusting for these sales in 2007, consolidated earned premiums in 2008 increased by $182 million, or 1%, over 2007. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premiums in 2008 declined 1% from 2007 despite continued strong business retention rates, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing and new business. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 2% in 2008 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes) was driven by changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties for Bond & Financial Products. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 3% in 2008 (adjusted for the sale of Mendota) reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business volume, coupled with continued renewal price increases. Earned premiums in 2007 totaled $21.47 billion, an increase of $710 million, or 3%, over 2006. Afianzadora Insurgentes and Mendota accounted for $78 million and $176 million of earned premiums, 71 Table of Contents respectively, in 2006. Adjusting for the sales of these subsidiaries in both years, earned premiums in 2007 grew 4% over 2006. In the Business Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 4% in 2007 over 2006 primarily reflected the impact of the growth in business volume over the preceding twelve months. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 4% in 2007 over 2006 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes) was driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange, growth in business volume and a benefit from adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds. In the Personal Insurance segment, earned premium growth of 6% in 2007 over 2006 (adjusted for the sale of Mendota) reflected continued strong business retention rates, continued renewal price increases and growth from new business volumes over the preceding twelve months. Net Investment Income The following table sets forth information regarding the Companys investments. (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Average investments(a) $ 74,197 $ 73,872 $ 71,252 Pretax net investment income 2,792 3,761 3,517 After tax net investment income 2,299 2,915 2,712 Average pretax yield(b) 3.8 % 5.1 % 4.9 % Average after tax yield(b) 3.1 % 3.9 % 3.8 % (a)Excludes net unrealized investment gains and losses, net of tax, and is adjusted for cash, receivables for investment sales, payables on investment purchases and accrued investment income. (b)Excludes net realized gains and losses and unrealized investment gains and losses. Net investment income of $2.79 billion in 2008 declined $969 million, or 26%, from 2007, primarily due to lower returns from non fixed maturity investments, which were negative in 2008, compared with strong positive returns in 2007. Non fixed maturity investments include private equity partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and typically report financial statement information on a lag. These partnerships and funds produced negative net investment income of $327 million in 2008 compared with net investment income of $473 million in 2007. The value of many of these investments was updated through year end based upon information made available by certain of the investment managers. This update accounted for $87 million of the non fixed maturity portfolios investment loss described above. The decline in net investment income from these investments in 2008 reflected market conditions, which resulted in a lower level of transactions and lower market values compared to those at December 31, 2007. Net investment income from the Companys fixed maturity portfolio in 2008 also declined from 2007, primarily due to a significant decline in short term interest rates. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2008 totaled $61.57 billion, $2.58 billion lower than at the same date in 2007, primarily reflecting the use of $2.12 billion of funds for the Companys common share repurchases during 2008, the payment of $715 million of dividends to shareholders, the transfer of $662 million of fixed maturity investments as part of the sale of Unionamerica, and $450 million of contributions to the Companys pension plan, which were partially offset by strong cash flows from operating activities. The average pretax investment yield of 3.8% in 2008 declined from 5.1% in 2007, primarily reflecting the negative investment income from non fixed maturity investments in 2008. Net investment income totaled $3.76 billion in 2007, an increase of $244 million, or 7%, over 2006 net investment income of $3.52 billion. The increase in 2007 was primarily the result of continued growth in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio resulting from strong cash flows from operating activities and higher yields on long term taxable fixed maturity securities. Also contributing to investment income growth in 2007 were strong levels of net investment income from the Companys 72 Table of Contents real estate partnerships. The amortized cost of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2007 totaled $64.15 billion, $1.91 billion higher than year end 2006. The average pretax investment yield was 5.1% in 2007, compared with 4.9% in 2006. The increase primarily reflected strong returns generated by the real estate partnerships and higher yields on taxable investments purchased in 2007. Except as described below for certain legal entities, the Company allocates its invested assets and the related net investment income to its reportable business segments. Pretax net investment income is allocated based upon an investable funds concept, which takes into account liabilities (net of non invested assets) and appropriate capital considerations for each segment. For investable funds, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the estimated duration of the loss reserves future cash flows, the interest rate environment at the time the losses were incurred and A+ rated corporate debt instrument yields. For capital, a benchmark investment yield is developed that reflects the average yield on the total investment portfolio. The benchmark investment yields are applied to each segments investable funds and capital, respectively, to produce a total notional investment income by segment. The Companys actual net investment income is allocated to each segment in proportion to the respective segments notional investment income to total notional investment income. There are certain legal entities within the Company that are dedicated to specific reportable business segments. The invested assets and related net investment income from these legal entities are reported in the applicable business segment and are not allocated. Fee Income The National Accounts market in the Business Insurance segment is the primary source of the Companys fee based business. The declines in fee income in 2008 and 2007 compared with the respective prior years are described in the Business Insurance segment discussion that follows. Net Realized Investment Gains (Losses) Net realized investment losses of $415 million in 2008 were driven by $420 million of investment impairments. The 2008 impairments included $186 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers (including $70 million related to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its subsidiaries), $113 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value, $64 million related to structured mortgage obligations and $57 million related to securities the Company has identified for potential sales prior to a recovery in market value. Net realized investment losses in 2008 also included $77 million related to convertible bonds wherein the embedded option price is marked to market through realized gains or losses and $53 million of losses related to U.S. Treasury futures contracts (which require a daily mark to market settlement and are used to shorten the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio). Partially offsetting these realized investment losses in 2008 were net realized gains of $50 million related to foreign currency exchange gains, $39 million from the sale of subsidiaries and $17 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of venture capital investments. Net realized investment gains of $154 million in 2007 included $91 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $16 million) generated by the venture capital portfolio (including an $81 million net realized investment gain from the bundled sale of a substantial portion of the Companys venture capital investment holdings), $63 million of net realized investment gains from the sale of a privately held security, $21 million of net realized investment gains related to the Companys holdings of stock purchase warrants of Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., a publicly held company, and $5 million of net realized investment gains (net of impairment losses of $37 million) from the Companys fixed maturity portfolio. These gains were partially offset by a net realized investment loss of $24 million related to the divestiture of a subsidiary. Net realized investment gains in 2006 totaled $11 million. 73 Table of Contents Further information regarding the nature of impairment charges in each year is included in the "Investment Portfolio" section later in this discussion. Other Revenues Other revenues in all periods presented primarily consist of premium installment charges. In 2007, other revenues also reflected a $39 million loss related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. Other revenues in 2006 included a $42 million gain on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.60% subordinated debentures. Written Premiums Consolidated gross and net written premiums were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Business Insurance $ 12,580 $ 13,017 $ 13,047 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,966 4,037 3,981 Personal Insurance 7,291 7,144 7,011 Total $ 23,837 $ 24,198 $ 24,039 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Business Insurance $ 11,220 $ 11,318 $ 11,046 Financial, Professional & International Insurance 3,468 3,465 3,393 Personal Insurance 6,995 6,835 6,711 Total $ 21,683 $ 21,618 $ 21,150 Afianzadora Insurgentes and Mendota generated combined gross and net written premiums of $79 million and $74 million, respectively, in 2007, prior to their sale. Adjusting for the sale of these operations in 2007, gross written premiums in 2008 declined 1% and net written premiums in 2008 increased by less than 1% compared with 2007. In the Business Insurance segment, net written premiums decreased by 1% from 2007, despite strong business retention rates. Premium growth in Industry Focused Underwriting, Select Accounts and Commercial Accounts in 2008, which was generally driven by strong business retention rates and new business volume, was largely offset by premium declines in National Accounts, Target Risk Underwriting and Specialized Distribution which primarily resulted from declines in renewal price changes. Net written premiums in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes increased by 1% over 2007, largely driven by changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained in the Bond & Financial Products group. In the Personal Insurance segment, net written premiums in 2008 adjusted for the sale of Mendota increased 3% over 2007, reflecting continued strong retention rates, renewal price increases and growth in new business levels. Afianzadora Insurgentes and Mendota generated combined gross and net written premiums of $279 million and $265 million, respectively, in 2006. Adjusting for the impact of premium volume from those operations in both years, the Companys consolidated gross and net written premiums in 2007 increased 2% and 3%, respectively, over 2006. In Business Insurance, net written premium growth of 2% was concentrated in the Commercial Accounts, Select Accounts and Industry Focused Underwriting markets, primarily driven by strong business retention rates coupled with higher new business volume. 74 Table of Contents In addition, a decline in premiums ceded for catastrophe reinsurance contributed to net written premium growth over 2006 in Business Insurance. In Financial, Professional & International Insurance, net written premium growth of 4% (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes) reflected the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange and strong business volume in construction surety, in Canada and at Lloyds. Adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds also contributed to the growth in net premium volume in 2007. Net written premium growth of 4% in the Personal Insurance segment in 2007 (adjusted for the sale of Mendota) was driven by continued strong retention rates and renewal price increases, partially offset by a decline in new business volume, particularly for coastal coverages. Claims and Expenses Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $12.99 billion in 2008, $596 million, or 5%, higher than the 2007 total of $12.40 billion, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses in Personal Insurance and the impact of loss cost trends. These factors were partially offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $1.26 billion, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as wind, rain and hail storms in several regions of the United States throughout the year. The cost of catastrophes in 2007 totaled $167 million, primarily resulting from wildfires in California and several wind, rain and hail storms throughout the United States. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 totaled $1.54 billion, compared with $546 million of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007. The Companys three business segments each experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. The majority of net favorable prior year reserve development occurred in the Business Insurance segment and was driven by better than expected loss results primarily concentrated in the general liability, commercial multi peril, commercial property and commercial automobile product lines, partially offset by increases in workers compensation reserves and $70 million and $85 million increases in asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively (which are discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein). The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment experienced favorable prior year loss experience in the International group, particularly in the public and products liability (general liability), professional indemnity (professional liability) and property lines of business in the United Kingdom, the general liability line of business in Canada, and the Aviation and Property lines of business at Lloyds. In the Personal Insurance segment, favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina as well as better than expected loss experience in certain lines of business within the Homeowners and Other product line. Each of the Companys three business segments also experienced net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007. In Business Insurance, net favorable prior year reserve development was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. Net total prior year reserve development in 2007 in the Business Insurance segment included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves. In the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 primarily reflected better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years. In the Personal Insurance segment, net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 occurred in both the Automobile and Homeowners and Other lines of business. 75 Table of Contents Factors contributing to net favorable prior year reserve development in each segment in 2008, 2007 and 2006 are discussed in more detail in the segment discussions that follow. Claims and claim adjustment expenses of $12.40 billion in 2007 were $153 million, or 1%, higher than the 2006 total of $12.24 billion. The 2007 total included $546 million of net favorable prior year reserve development and $167 million of catastrophe losses, whereas the 2006 total included $394 million of net favorable prior year reserve development and $103 million of catastrophe losses. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was concentrated in the Personal Insurance segment, primarily reflecting better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. The Business Insurance segment also experienced net favorable prior year loss experience in its ongoing operations in 2006, primarily in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business. The favorable development in 2006 was partially offset by $155 million and $120 million increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively, which are discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein. There was also unfavorable prior year reserve development in runoff assumed reinsurance business in 2006. In 2006, catastrophe losses totaled $103 million, all of which was incurred in the Personal Insurance segment and resulted from several wind, rain, hail and snow storms in the United States throughout the year. Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.88 billion in 2008, $174 million, or 5%, higher than the comparable 2007 total of $3.71 billion. The growth in amortization costs in 2008 primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007, described in more detail below. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $3.71 billion in 2007, $367 million, or 11%, higher than the comparable total of $3.34 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting a $213 million increase from the implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program for the majority of the Companys agents described below. The remaining increase was primarily due to growth in business volume in 2007. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses totaled $3.52 billion in 2008, an increase of $166 million, or 5%, over the comparable 2007 total of $3.35 billion. This increase primarily reflected the impact of $141 million of hurricane related assessments. General and administrative expenses totaled $3.35 billion in 2007, a decrease of $106 million, or 3%, from the comparable 2006 total of $3.46 billion. The decline primarily reflected the impact of the Companys implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in the following paragraph, which was largely offset by expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company discontinued the use of contingent commissions and implemented a new fixed agent compensation program for all of its personal insurance business. The Company also offered the majority of its agents conducting commercial insurance business the option to switch to this new program. The Companys total payout rate for all agent compensation for 2007 was substantially the same as for 2006; however, the change to the new program created a difference in the timing of commission expense recognition. The cost of the new program is required to be deferred and amortized over the related policy period (generally six to twelve months), whereas the cost of the 76 Table of Contents contingent commission program was not subject to deferred acquisition cost accounting treatment and, therefore, was expensed as incurred. That timing difference resulted in a benefit to income during the 2007 transition year. The impact of this change in 2007 was to lower reported expenses by $376 million in the "General and Administrative Expenses" income statement line, and increase reported expenses by $213 million in the "Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs" income statement line, compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program. Interest Expense Interest expense in 2008 totaled $370 million, an increase of $24 million, or 7%, over the 2007 total of $346 million. The increase primarily reflected a higher average level of debt outstanding at a higher weighted average interest rate during 2008. Interest expense of $346 million in 2007 was $22 million higher than the comparable 2006 total of $324 million. The increase primarily reflected the impact of the Companys issuance of debt in 2007, which is described in more detail in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section herein. Proceeds from a substantial portion of debt issuances in 2007 were used to fund the redemption and maturity of certain of the Companys indebtedness. Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate was 21.3%, 26.0% and 26.5% in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The declines in 2008 and 2007 primarily reflected a higher proportion of tax exempt investment income. GAAP Combined Ratios The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 59.4% for 2008 was 2.8 points higher than the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 56.6% in 2007. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 5.8 points of the 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 0.7 point impact from catastrophe losses. The 2008 and 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included 7.1 point and 2.5 point benefits, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 2.3 points higher than the respective 2007 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, a small increase in the number of large losses, non catastrophe weather related losses and loss cost trends. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008 was 1.7 points higher than the 2007 underwriting expense ratio of 30.8%. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.7 point impact of the hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 0.8 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described above. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the adjusted 2008 expense ratio was 0.2 points higher than the adjusted expense ratio in 2007, reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development, as well as salary increases in the normal course of business. The consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 56.6% in 2007 was 0.9 points lower than the comparable 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.5%. The 2007 and 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios included benefits of 2.5 points and 1.9 points, respectively, from net favorable prior year reserve development. Catastrophe losses accounted for 0.7 points and 0.5 points of the 2007 and 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratios. Excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development, the 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio improved by 0.5 points compared with the comparable 2006 ratio, reflecting continuing improvement in current accident year results in several lines of business. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2007 was 0.2 points higher than the comparable 2006 underwriting expense ratio of 30.6%. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described above provided a benefit of 0.8 points to the expense ratios in 2007, which was more than offset by the increases in expenses discussed above. 77  Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT Business Insurance Results of the Companys Business Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 11,180 $ 11,283 $ 10,876 Net investment income 1,917 2,708 2,538 Fee income 390 508 591 Other revenues 30 24 44 Total revenues $ 13,517 $ 14,523 $ 14,049 Total claims and expenses $ 10,506 $ 10,444 $ 10,509 Operating income $ 2,338 $ 3,015 $ 2,622 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 57.7 % 57.1 % 60.3 % Underwriting expense ratio 32.5 30.7 30.6 GAAP combined ratio 90.2 % 87.8 % 90.9 % Overview Operating income of $2.34 billion in 2008 was $677 million, or 22%, lower than operating income of $3.02 billion in 2007, primarily due to a significant decline in net investment income and an increase in the cost of catastrophes. Also contributing to this reduction were a decline in fee income, the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing, the impact of loss cost trends, and a small increase in the number of large property losses. A significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 partially offset these factors. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 totaled $706 million, compared with $4 million in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $1.12 billion and $301 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operating income in 2008 included an $89 million tax benefit related to the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised the Companys United Kingdom based runoff direct insurance and reinsurance businesses. Operating income in 2007 benefited by $81 million from the Companys implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program (described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein) and the resolution of certain tax matters. Operating income of $3.02 billion in 2007 was $393 million, or 15%, higher than operating income of $2.62 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting increases in net favorable prior year reserve development and net investment income, the continuation of favorable current accident year results and the resolution of certain tax matters. In addition, results in 2007 benefited from the change to the new fixed agent compensation program. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and a decline in fee income in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 and 2006 totaled $301 million and $21 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $4 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2006. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $11.18 billion in 2008 decreased $103 million, or 1%, from 2007, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing and new business. Earned premiums of $11.28 billion in 2007 increased 4% over 2006 earned premiums of $10.88 billion, reflecting the growth in net written premium volume in the majority of the markets comprising this segment, driven by strong business retention rates and increases in new business volume, partially offset by minor decreases in renewal price changes. 78 Table of Contents Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2008 and 2007 as compared with the prior year. Fee Income National Accounts is the primary source of fee income due to its service businesses, which include claim and loss prevention services to large companies that choose to self insure a portion of their insurance risks, and claims and policy management services to workers compensation residual market pools. The $118 million and $83 million declines in fee income in 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily resulted from lower serviced premium volume due to the depopulation of workers compensation residual market pools, the impact of lower loss costs on fee income (since fees are principally based on a percentage of losses or number of claims serviced, both of which have declined due to workers compensation reforms in numerous states), and lower new business volume due to increased competition. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $6.61 billion, an increase of $65 million, or 1%, over 2007, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, a small increase in the number of large property losses and the impact of loss cost trends, which were largely offset by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $642 million, primarily resulting from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav as well as wind, rain and hail storms in several regions of the United States throughout the year. Catastrophe losses in 2007 were $4 million. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $1.12 billion and $301 million, respectively. Net favorable prior year development in 2008 was driven by better than expected loss results primarily concentrated in the general liability and commercial multi peril product lines, an increase in anticipated ceded recoveries for older accident years in the general liability product line and better than anticipated loss development in the commercial property and commercial automobile product lines. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the general liability and commercial multi peril lines was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial property product line improvement occurred primarily in the 2007 accident year as a result of better than expected loss development for certain large national property, national programs, and ocean marine claim exposures and lower than expected weather related losses during the last half of 2007, as well as favorable loss development in certain large inland marine claim exposures and in ceded recoveries for commercial property large claims. In addition, the commercial multi peril and property product lines 2005 accident year results experienced improvement due to the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The commercial automobile product line improvement was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The net favorable prior year reserve development in the foregoing product lines in 2008 was partially offset by net unfavorable prior year reserve development in the workers compensation product line, primarily driven by higher than anticipated medical costs related to 2004 and prior accident years, and by $70 million and $85 million increases to asbestos and environmental reserves, respectively, which are discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation" sections herein. Net favorable prior year reserve development of $301 million in 2007 was primarily driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years in the commercial multi peril, general liability, commercial automobile and property product lines. The commercial multi peril and general 79 Table of Contents liability product lines experienced better than anticipated loss development that was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The commercial automobile product line experienced better than expected loss development due to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The property product line experienced fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006, as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. Net total prior year reserve development in 2007 included a $185 million increase to environmental reserves. (Refer to the "Environmental Claims and Litigation" section herein for additional discussion.) Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2007 of $6.67 billion declined by $180 million, or 3%, from the 2006 total of $6.85 billion, primarily reflecting an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development and continued favorable current accident year results, partially offset by an increase in business volume. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 totaled $21 million. In 2006, net favorable prior year reserve development in the commercial multi peril, general liability, property and commercial automobile lines of business was largely offset by increases totaling $275 million to asbestos and environmental reserves and reserve strengthening for assumed reinsurance business in runoff. The commercial multi peril and liability lines of business experienced better than anticipated loss development in 2006 that was attributable to several factors, including improving legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 in the property line of business primarily reflected less "demand surge" inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe and catastrophe losses. "Demand surge" refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. The commercial automobile line of business experienced better than expected loss development which was attributable to more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives focused on the automobile line of insurance and improvements in auto safety technology. The reserve strengthening in assumed reinsurance was primarily due to changes in projected loss development driven by an unanticipated change in the claim settlement patterns of the underlying casualty exposures. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.82 billion in 2008, $76 million, or 4%, higher than the comparable total of $1.74 billion in 2007. The growth in amortization costs primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense in 2008 resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2007 was 13% higher than the 2006 total of $1.55 billion. The increase reflected the growth in business volume, as well as a $108 million increase from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program (described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein). General and administrative expenses totaled $2.08 billion in 2008, an increase of $51 million, or 3%, over the comparable 2007 total of $2.03 billion. The increase in 2008 primarily reflected the impact of $62 million of hurricane related assessments. General and administrative expenses in 2007 were 4% lower than the comparable total of $2.10 billion in 2006. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in the first quarter of 2007 resulted in a reduction of $189 million in reported general and administrative expenses in 2007 compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program during those periods. That reduction was partially offset by an increase in expenses related to growth in business volume and continuing expenditures to support business growth and product development. The 2006 total included a provision for legal expenses related to investigations of various business practices by certain governmental agencies. 80 Table of Contents GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008 of 57.7% was 0.6 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 57.1%. The cost of catastrophes accounted for 5.7 points of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008, compared with no impact from catastrophes in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development provided 10.0 point and 2.6 point benefits to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for the cost of catastrophes and prior year reserve development was 2.3 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, reflecting the impact of competitive market conditions on pricing over the preceding twelve months and loss cost trends, as well as a small increase in the number of large property losses. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 57.1% in 2007 was 3.2 points lower than the comparable 2006 ratio of 60.3%. In 2007, net favorable prior year reserve development provided a 2.6 point benefit to the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, whereas the 2006 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio included a 0.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. Adjusting for the impact of prior year reserve development in both years, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in 2007 was 0.8 points better than the comparable 2006 ratio, reflecting favorable current accident year results in 2007. The underwriting expense ratio of 32.5% in 2008 was 1.8 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 30.7%. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.6 point impact of the hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 0.7 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. Adjusting for these factors in both years, the adjusted 2008 expense ratio was 0.5 points higher than the adjusted expense ratio for 2007, primarily reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development, the impact of a decline in the rate of earned premium growth relative to expense growth, and declines in fee income. A portion of fee income is accounted for as a reduction of expenses for purposes of calculating the expense ratio. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.7% in 2007, which included a 0.7 point benefit resulting from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, was 0.1 points higher than the 2006 ratio, reflecting the increases in general and administrative expenses described above, and the impact of a decline in fee income. Written Premiums The Business Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Select Accounts $ 2,804 $ 2,774 $ 2,733 Commercial Accounts 2,729 2,740 2,613 National Accounts 1,577 1,859 2,169 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,485 2,380 2,279 Target Risk Underwriting 2,029 2,182 2,187 Specialized Distribution 954 1,033 1,036 Total Business Insurance Core 12,578 12,968 13,017 Business Insurance Other 2 49 30 Total Business Insurance $ 12,580 $ 13,017 $ 13,047 81 Table of Contents Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Select Accounts $ 2,756 $ 2,711 $ 2,663 Commercial Accounts 2,524 2,518 2,376 National Accounts 996 1,056 1,135 Industry Focused Underwriting 2,396 2,301 2,196 Target Risk Underwriting 1,593 1,665 1,629 Specialized Distribution 939 1,015 1,022 Total Business Insurance Core 11,204 11,266 11,021 Business Insurance Other 16 52 25 Total Business Insurance $ 11,220 $ 11,318 $ 11,046 In Business Insurance Core, gross and net written premiums in 2008 decreased by 3% and 1% from 2007, respectively. The difference in rates of decline between gross and net written premiums in 2008 was concentrated in National Accounts, where a significant portion of gross written premiums is ceded to other insurers and residual market pools. As a result, the decline in gross written premiums did not have a proportional impact on net written premiums. Net written premium growth in the Industry Focused Underwriting, Select Accounts and Commercial Accounts groups generally reflected higher business retention levels and new business volume in several business units within these groups. This was more than offset by premium declines in Specialized Distribution, Target Risk Underwriting and National Accounts. In 2007, Business Insurance Core gross written premiums declined $49 million, or less than 1%, from the comparable 2006 total, whereas net written premiums increased $245 million, or 2%, compared with 2006. The difference in growth rates between gross and net written premiums in 2007 was also concentrated in National Accounts due to the same factor described above. All markets in Business Insurance Core operations, except National Accounts and Specialized Distribution, recorded net written premium growth in 2007, driven by higher new business volume throughout the majority of markets coupled with continued strong business retention rates, offset in some markets by minor decreases in renewal price changes. Net written premium growth in 2007 also benefited from a reduction in ceded premiums related to catastrophe reinsurance coverage. Select Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.76 billion in 2008 increased 2% over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were slightly higher than in 2007. Renewal price changes remained positive but declined from 2007. In the aggregate, new business volume in 2008 was virtually level with 2007. The Company experienced a favorable impact on its new business volume from its enhanced quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program for smaller businesses served by Select Accounts. However, new business volume for larger accounts in 2008 declined from 2007 primarily due to competitive market conditions. Net written premiums of $2.71 billion in 2007 grew 2% over 2006. New business volume increased over 2006, due in part to the introduction of the Companys enhanced quote to issue agency platform and multivariate pricing program in 37 states. Enhanced marketing efforts and additional products sold to existing customers also contributed to new business growth in 2007. Business retention rates remained strong in 2007. Renewal price changes in this market remained positive in 2007 but were lower than in 2006, as price increases for coastal coverages were partially offset by declines in renewal price changes for non coastal coverages, which continue to be impacted by competitive market conditions. Commercial Accounts. Net written premiums of $2.52 billion in 2008 were virtually level with the 2007 total. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were higher than in 2007. Renewal 82 Table of Contents price changes were slightly negative in 2008, and were lower than in 2007. New business levels also declined when compared with 2007, reflecting competitive market conditions in this market. Net written premiums of $2.52 billion in 2007 grew 6% over 2006, primarily driven by an increase in new business volume, coupled with continued strong business retention rates. The growth in new business volume reflected the impact of product introductions, additional products sold to existing customers and increased marketing efforts. Renewal price changes in this market declined from 2006 and were negative in 2007, primarily reflecting competitive market conditions. National Accounts. Net written premiums of $1.00 billion in 2008 decreased 6% from 2007. The decline primarily reflected a significant decline in renewal price changes, as the price charged for National Accounts products is adjusted based on actual loss performance, which continues to be favorable due to workers compensation reforms. Overall new business volume increased slightly over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and increased over 2007. Net written premiums of $1.06 billion in 2007 declined 7% from 2006, primarily reflecting competitive market conditions that resulted in lower business volume. Industry Focused Underwriting. Net written premiums of $2.40 billion in 2008 increased 4% over 2007. All business units in this market recorded net written premium growth in 2008. Growth in Construction net written premiums in 2008 was driven by strong business retention levels coupled with continued strong new business volume. An increase in new business volume was the primary factor in the growth in net written premiums in the Oil & Gas business unit. In Agribusiness, net written premium growth was driven by increases in business retention rates and renewal price changes. In the Public Sector business unit, the increase in net written premiums was driven by higher new business volume coupled with continued strong business retention rates. Net written premiums of $2.30 billion in 2007 increased 5% over 2006. The increase was driven by the Construction business unit, where favorable economic conditions contributed to higher new business volume; the Oil & Gas business unit, due to increased business retention rates and strong renewal price changes; and the Public Sector unit, due to an increase in retention rates. In addition, strong new business volume and business retention rates in the Agribusiness business unit contributed to premium growth in 2007. Net written premiums in the Technology business unit in 2007 were level with 2006. Target Risk Underwriting. Net written premiums of $1.59 billion in 2008 decreased 4% from 2007. The decline was concentrated in the National Property business unit, reflecting reductions in renewal price changes and new business volume due to competitive market conditions, and in the Inland Marine business unit, primarily reflecting reductions in business retention rates and new business volume due to general economic conditions. In addition, the Global Accounts business unit experienced a reduction in net written premiums due to declines in business retention rates, renewal price changes and new business. Partially offsetting the declines in these business units was an increase in net written premiums in the Excess Casualty business unit, where renewal price changes remained negative but improved over 2007 and business retention levels increased. Net written premiums of $1.67 billion in 2007 grew 2% over 2006, driven by increases in the Inland Marine and National Property business units. Strong growth in new business volume accounted for the increase in Inland Marine net written premiums, whereas National Propertys premium growth was driven by continued strong business retention rates and a decline in premiums ceded for catastrophe reinsurance coverage, partially offset by a decrease in renewal price changes, which were negative. Growth in these two business units was partially offset by a decline in Excess Casualty net written premiums. Specialized Distribution. Net written premiums of $939 million in 2008 decreased 7% from 2007. The premium decline reflected negative renewal price changes in both the Northland and National 83 Table of Contents Programs business units. In the National Programs business unit, business retention rates increased over 2007, but new business levels declined compared with 2007. In the Northland business unit, business retention rates and new business levels remained strong, but were down slightly compared with 2007. Net written premiums of $1.02 billion in 2007 declined less than 1% from 2006. The decline was primarily due to premium reductions in the National Programs business unit, driven by reductions in new business volume and business retention rates due to competitive market conditions. These reductions were largely offset by premium growth in the Northland business unit due to strong business retention rates and new business volume. In Business Insurance Other, the runoff healthcare, reinsurance and international business produced minimal net written premiums in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Financial, Professional & International Insurance Results of the Companys Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 3,429 $ 3,384 $ 3,321 Net investment income 454 494 429 Other revenues 24 29 26 Total revenues $ 3,907 $ 3,907 $ 3,776 Total claims and expenses $ 3,004 $ 2,981 $ 2,968 Operating income $ 649 $ 675 $ 609 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 51.2 % 50.8 % 53.7 % Underwriting expense ratio 36.0 36.8 35.3 GAAP combined ratio 87.2 % 87.6 % 89.0 % Overview Operating income of $649 million in 2008 decreased by $26 million, or 4%, from 2007. The decline in operating income was primarily driven by an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within International, an increase in the cost of catastrophes and a decline in net investment income, largely offset by a significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 was $84 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $274 and $93 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operating income of $675 million in 2007 was $66 million, or 11%, higher than operating income of $609 million in 2006, primarily driven by an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development, higher net investment income and favorable current accident year results. These factors were partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses and non catastrophe losses incurred in the United Kingdom related to flooding. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $93 million in 2007, compared with $14 million in 2006. In March 2007, the Company completed the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, which accounted for $25 million and $78 million of net written premiums for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. 84 Table of Contents Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $3.43 billion in 2008 increased $45 million, or 1%, over the 2007 total of $3.38 billion. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes in 2007, earned premium growth of 2% in 2008 was concentrated in the Construction Services business unit of the Bond & Financial Products group due to changes in the terms of certain reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained in the first quarter of the year. Earned premiums in 2007 were slightly higher than in 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes in both years, earned premiums in 2007 grew 3% over 2006. Earned premium growth was concentrated in the International group, driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency rates of exchange and growth in business volume over the preceding twelve months. Earned premium growth in 2007 also benefited from adjustments to prior year premium estimates for the Companys operations at Lloyds. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2008 and 2007 as compared with the prior year, as well as a discussion of the Companys net investment income allocation methodology. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses of $1.77 billion in 2008 increased by $32 million, or 2%, over 2007. An increase in the cost of catastrophes and an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within International in 2008 were largely offset by a significant increase in net favorable prior year reserve development. The cost of catastrophes included in claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $73 million, compared with no catastrophe losses in 2007. Hurricanes Ike and Gustav accounted for the majority of catastrophe losses in 2008. Net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $274 million in 2008, primarily driven by better than expected loss experience in the International group. The improvements in longer tail lines of business were attributable to several factors, including enhanced risk control and underwriting strategies throughout the International group. In the property line of business, the improvement primarily resulted from better than anticipated loss development in the United Kingdom, in part due to favorable claim activity relating to 2007 flood losses. In the Bond & Financial Products group, better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within the fidelity and surety product line, resulting from favorable settlements on large claims (primarily from accident years prior to 2005), resulted in net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008. In 2007, net favorable prior year reserve development totaled $93 million, primarily reflecting better than expected loss development in international property, employers liability, professional indemnity and motor lines of business for recent accident years, which was attributable to several factors, including enhanced pricing and underwriting strategies throughout the International operations, and the favorable impact of legal and judicial reforms in Ireland. Claims and claim adjustment expenses totaled $1.74 billion in 2007, a decrease of 3% from 2006, primarily reflecting an increase in net favorable prior year reserve development and the impact of the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, partially offset by the increase in business volume, $37 million of non catastrophe losses incurred in the United Kingdom in 2007 related to flooding and the impact of foreign currency rates of exchange. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 totaled $14 million. General and administrative expenses in 2008 totaled $581 million, $9 million lower than in 2007, primarily reflecting a decrease in commission expense. The Companys implementation of the new fixed 85 Table of Contents agent compensation program in the first quarter of 2007 did not have a material impact on the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment. General and administrative expenses totaled $590 million in 2007, an increase of 10% over the 2006 total of $536 million. The increase primarily reflected the segments continued expenditures to support business growth and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 51.2% in 2008 was 0.4 points higher than the 2007 ratio of 50.8%. The 2008 ratio included an 8.0 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and a 2.3 point impact from the cost of catastrophes, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 2.7 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development and no impact from catastrophe losses. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 3.4 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting an increase in the number of large losses that exceeded expectations within International. The underwriting expense ratio of 36.0% in 2008 was 0.8 points lower than in 2007. The 2008 expense ratio included a 0.2 point impact of hurricane related assessments. Adjusting for these assessments, the 2008 expense ratio was 1.0 points lower than the expense ratio in 2007, reflecting reduced acquisition costs. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 50.8% in 2007 was 2.9 points lower than the 2006 ratio of 53.7%. The 2007 ratio included a 2.7 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, compared with a 0.4 point benefit in 2006. Excluding this factor in each year, the 2007 ratio was 0.6 points lower than the 2006 ratio. The underwriting expense ratio of 36.8% in 2007 was 1.5 points higher than the comparable 2006 expense ratio, driven by the increase in expenses supporting business growth. Written Premiums Financial, Professional & International Insurance gross and net written premiums by market were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,507 $ 2,614 $ 2,657 International 1,459 1,423 1,324 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,966 $ 4,037 $ 3,981 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Bond & Financial Products $ 2,228 $ 2,228 $ 2,255 International 1,240 1,237 1,138 Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance $ 3,468 $ 3,465 $ 3,393 Afianzadora Insurgentes generated gross and net written premiums of $30 million and $25 million, respectively, in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of that operation in 2007, gross written premiums in 2008 declined 1% from 2007, whereas net written premiums increased 1% over 2007. The difference in 2008 gross and net written premium growth rates primarily reflected changes in the terms of certain of the Companys reinsurance treaties that resulted in a higher level of business retained in the Bond & Financial Products group. 86  Table of Contents In the Bond & Financial Products group, net written premiums in 2008 increased 1% over 2007 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes), as the impact of the higher level of business retained in 2008 was largely offset by a decline in premium volume due to competitive market conditions and the economic downturn. In the Bond & Financial Products group (excluding the surety line of business, for which the following are not relevant measures), business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and increased slightly over 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 were slightly negative, compared to an increase in the prior year, and new business levels were consistent with 2007. Net written premiums in the International group in 2008 were flat with 2007. For the International group in 2008, business retention rates declined from 2007 due to the intentional non renewal of certain property business in Canada and more competitive market conditions at Lloyds. Renewal price changes in 2008 were flat, compared to a decrease in 2007, and new business volume increased. Gross and net written premiums in 2007 increased 1% and 2%, respectively, over 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes, gross and net written premiums increased 3% and 4%, respectively, over 2006. Net written premiums in the Bond & Financial Products group in 2007 increased 1% over 2006 (adjusted for the sale of Afianzadora Insurgentes), primarily due to increased construction surety business volume resulting from strong economic conditions in the public works sector of the construction industry. For Bond and Financial Products (excluding the surety line of business), business retention rates in 2007 increased over 2006. Renewal price changes in 2007 were positive but down from 2006, and new business levels declined due in part to competitive market conditions. In the International group, net written premiums in 2007 increased $99 million, or 9%, over 2006, primarily reflecting the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and strong business volume at Lloyds and in Canada. Net written premium volume in the International group in 2007 also benefited from adjustments to prior year premium estimates in the Lloyds operation. In the International group in 2007, business retention rates remained strong, new business volume increased over 2006, and renewal price changes declined from 2006. Personal Insurance Results of the Companys Personal Insurance segment were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Earned premiums $ 6,970 $ 6,803 $ 6,563 Net investment income 421 559 548 Other revenues 75 90 94 Total revenues $ 7,466 $ 7,452 $ 7,205 Total claims and expenses $ 6,855 $ 5,996 $ 5,555 Operating income $ 465 $ 1,019 $ 1,132 Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio 66.2 % 58.6 % 54.8 % Underwriting expense ratio 30.8 28.2 28.3 GAAP combined ratio 97.0 % 86.8 % 83.1 % Overview Operating income of $465 million in 2008 was $554 million, or 54%, lower than operating income in 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in the cost of catastrophes. Also contributing to the decline in 2008 were the impact of a reduction in net investment income, an increase in non catastrophe related weather losses and loss cost trends. The cost of catastrophes in 2008 totaled $618 million, compared 87 Table of Contents with $163 million in 2007. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $143 million and $152 million, respectively. In addition, results in 2007 benefited by $71 million from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program, which is described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. Operating income of $1.02 billion in 2007 was $113 million, or 10%, lower than operating income of $1.13 billion in 2006, primarily reflecting a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development and an increase in catastrophe losses, partially offset by growth in business volume and net investment income and the $71 million benefit from the new fixed agent compensation program. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 and 2006 totaled $152 million and $359 million, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $163 million, compared with catastrophe losses of $103 million in 2006. In April 2007, the Company completed the sale of its subsidiary, Mendota Insurance Company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Mendakota Insurance Company and Mendota Insurance Agency, Inc. (collectively, Mendota). These subsidiaries primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $49 million and $187 million of net written premiums in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Companys results of operations or financial position. Earned Premiums Earned premiums of $6.97 billion in 2008 increased $167 million, or 2%, over earned premiums of $6.80 billion in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in 2007, earned premiums in 2008 increased 3% over 2007. The increase reflected continued strong business retention rates and new business volume, coupled with continued renewal price increases. Earned premiums of $6.80 billion in 2007 grew 4% over 2006, primarily reflecting continued strong business retention rates, increases in renewal price changes, and growth from new business volume, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota in early April 2007. Adjusting for the impact of Mendota in both years, earned premiums in 2007 increased 6% over 2006. Net Investment Income Refer to the "Net Investment Income" section of "Consolidated Results of Operations" herein for a discussion of the change in the Companys net investment income in 2008 and 2007 as compared with the prior year. Claims and Expenses Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $4.62 billion, an increase of $629 million, or 16%, over 2007, primarily reflecting a significant increase in the cost of catastrophes, non catastrophe weather related losses in the Homeowners and Other product line, the impact of loss cost trends and increased business volume. The cost of catastrophes included in claim and claim adjustment expenses in 2008 totaled $541 million, compared with $163 million in 2007. Catastrophe losses in 2008 primarily resulted from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, as well as tornado, wind and hail storms in various regions of the United States throughout the year. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2008 and 2007 totaled $143 million and $152 million, respectively. The 2008 net favorable prior year reserve development was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina, and better than expected loss experience from recent accident years for the Homeowners and Other product line. This improvement was driven in part by claim initiatives as well as better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims. In addition, the Homeowners and Other product line experienced improvement in older accident years for the umbrella line as well as favorable experience from accident year 2007 for allied coverages due to less than expected claim activity. Net favorable prior year reserve development in 2007 of $152 million was driven by better than expected automobile loss experience due 88 Table of Contents in part to claim initiatives and fewer than expected late reported homeowners claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of net favorable prior year reserve development in the Homeowners and Other line of business in 2007 was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. Claims and claim adjustment expenses in 2007 totaled $3.99 billion, an increase of $390 million, or 11%, over 2006, primarily reflecting a decline in net favorable prior year reserve development, an increase in catastrophe losses and higher business volume, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota. Net favorable prior year reserve development of $359 million in 2006 was driven by better than expected loss experience in the auto bodily injury and non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other lines of business, and a reduction in loss estimates for the 2005 hurricanes. In the Automobile line of business, the improvement in 2006 was partially driven by better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices. These changes included practices which have allowed case reserves to be established more accurately earlier in the claim settlement process, thereby changing historical loss development patterns. In addition, industry and Company initiatives to fight fraud in several states led to a decrease in the total number of claims and a change in historical loss development patterns. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 was partially driven by a significant decrease in the number of claims, attributable to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. These changes also resulted in a change in historical loss development patterns. In addition, for 2006, non catastrophe related Homeowners and Other loss experience was favorable due to continued evidence of a less than expected impact from "demand surge," which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services. Approximately $100 million of net favorable prior year reserve development in 2006 resulted from a reduction in loss estimates for catastrophes incurred in 2005, primarily due to lower than expected additional living expense losses related to Hurricane Katrina. Catastrophe losses in 2007 totaled $163 million, $60 million higher than the 2006 total of $103 million. Catastrophe losses in 2007 were primarily the result of wildfires in California and several storms throughout the United States, whereas the 2006 total was driven by several wind, rain, hail and snow storms throughout the year in the United States. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.41 billion in 2008, compared with $1.31 billion in 2007. The growth in amortization costs in 2008 primarily reflected the higher level of amortized commission expense in 2008 resulting from the Companys implementation of a new fixed agent compensation program in 2007, as well as an increase in business volume. The amortization of deferred acquisition costs totaled $1.31 billion in 2007, $156 million, or 14%, higher than the comparable 2006 total of $1.15 billion. The increase included $94 million from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in 2007 described in more detail in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein, as well as growth in business volume, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Mendota General and administrative expenses totaled $829 million in 2008, an increase of $130 million, or 19% over the 2007 total of $699 million. The increase in 2008 included the impact of $77 million of hurricane related assessments. The remaining increase reflected growth in business volume and continued investments to support business growth and product development. General and administrative expenses totaled $699 million in 2007, a decrease of $105 million, or 13%, from the 2006 total of $804 million. The decrease in expenses in 2007 primarily reflected a decline in commission expenses resulting from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, as well as the impact of the sale of Mendota, which were partially offset by expenses related 89 Table of Contents to increased business volume, and continued investments to support business growth and product development. The implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program in 2007 resulted in a $165 million reduction in reported general and administrative expenses, compared to what would have been reported under the prior contingent commission program. GAAP Combined Ratio The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 66.2% in 2008 was 7.6 points higher than the comparable 2007 ratio of 58.6%. The 2008 ratio included a 7.8 point impact of the cost of catastrophes and a 2.1 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 2.4 point impact of the cost of catastrophes and a 2.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development. The 2008 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio adjusted for catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development was 2.1 points higher than the 2007 ratio on the same basis, primarily reflecting the impact of an increase in non catastrophe weather related losses in the Homeowners and Other line of business and loss cost trends. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio of 58.6% in 2007 was 3.8 points higher than the comparable 2006 ratio of 54.8%, primarily reflecting the decline in net favorable prior year reserve development. The ratio in 2007 included a 2.2 point benefit from net favorable prior year reserve development, compared with a 5.5 point benefit in 2006. Catastrophe losses accounted for 2.4 points and 1.6 points, respectively, of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratios in 2007 and 2006. Excluding the impact of prior year development and catastrophes in both years, the adjusted 2007 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio was 0.3 points lower than the adjusted 2006 ratio. The underwriting expense ratio of 30.8% in 2008 was 2.6 points higher than the 2007 ratio of 28.2%. The 2008 ratio included a 1.1 point impact from hurricane related assessments, whereas the 2007 ratio included a 1.0 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program described in the "Consolidated Overview" section herein. Adjusting for these factors, the 2008 expense ratio was 0.5 points higher than the adjusted expense ratio for 2007, primarily reflecting continued investments to support business growth and product development. The underwriting expense ratio in 2007, excluding the 1.0 point benefit from the implementation of the new fixed agent compensation program, was 0.9 points higher than the 2006 expense ratio of 28.3%, reflecting the impact of continued investments to support business growth and product development. Written Premiums The Personal Insurance segments gross and net written premiums by product line were as follows: Gross Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Automobile $ 3,689 $ 3,673 $ 3,731 Homeowners and Other 3,602 3,471 3,280 Total Personal Insurance $ 7,291 $ 7,144 $ 7,011 Net Written Premiums (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Automobile $ 3,660 $ 3,628 $ 3,692 Homeowners and Other 3,335 3,207 3,019 Total Personal Insurance $ 6,995 $ 6,835 $ 6,711 90 Table of Contents Gross and net written premiums in 2008 both increased 2% over the comparable 2007 totals. Mendota accounted for $49 million of both gross and net written premiums in 2007. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in 2007, gross and net written premiums in 2008 both increased 3% over the 2007 totals. In the Automobile line of business, net written premiums increased 2% over 2007, adjusting for the sale of Mendota. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were consistent with 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 remained positive and consistent with 2007. New business levels in 2008 increased over 2007. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2008 grew 4% over 2007. Business retention rates in 2008 remained strong and were consistent with 2007. Renewal price changes in 2008 remained positive but declined from 2007. New business levels also remained strong and increased slightly over 2007. Gross and net written premiums in 2007 both increased 2% over the respective totals in 2006. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota in both years, net written premiums in the Personal Insurance segment in 2007 increased 4% over 2006, driven by continued strong retention rates and increases in renewal price changes, partially offset by a decline in new business volume. In the Automobile line of business, net written premiums in 2007 declined 2%, from 2006. Adjusting for the impact of the sale of Mendota, net written premiums in the Automobile line of business in 2007 increased 2% over 2006. That growth primarily reflected renewal price change increases coupled with continued strong retention rates, partially offset by a decline in new business volume due to competitive market conditions. In the Homeowners and Other line of business, net written premiums in 2007 grew 6% over 2006, primarily reflecting renewal price change increases, particularly for coastal coverages, coupled with continued strong retention rates. New business volume in this line of business in 2007 declined from 2006, primarily driven by strategies to reduce exposure to losses on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the United States. Adjusting for the sale of Mendota for both years, net written premiums in the Homeowners and Other line of business in 2007 increased 7% over 2006. The Personal Insurance segment had approximately 7.4 million and 7.2 million policies in force at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In the Automobile line of business, policies in force at December 31, 2008 increased 2% over the same date in 2007. Policies in force in the Homeowners and Other line of business at December 31, 2008 grew by 3% over the same date in 2007. Interest Expense and Other (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Net loss $ (257 ) $ (209 ) $ (163 ) The $48 million increase in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2008 compared with 2007 was primarily driven by a $52 million benefit in 2007 resulting from the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. The net loss in 2008 included after tax interest expense of $239 million, compared with $224 million in 2007. The net loss in 2007 also included an after tax loss of $25 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% contingently convertible debentures in April 2007, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining debt issuance costs. The $46 million increase in net loss for Interest Expense and Other in 2007 compared with 2006 was driven by the impact of debt redemptions in each year. The net loss in 2007 included the after tax loss of $25 million related to the Companys redemption of its 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes. Conversely, the net loss in 2006 was reduced by a $27 million after tax gain realized on the redemption of the Companys $593 million, 7.6% subordinated debentures. After tax interest expense in 91 Table of Contents 2007 totaled $224 million, compared with $207 million in 2006. The net losses in this category for 2007 and 2006 were reduced by the favorable resolution of various prior year tax matters. ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company believes that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. While the Company has experienced a decrease in asbestos claims over the past several years, the Company continues to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from the Companys policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against the Companys policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. Factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. The focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. In addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including the Company. Bankruptcy proceedings have also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. Currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. This trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the loss and loss expense payments experienced by the Company. The Companys asbestos related claims and claim adjustment expense experience also has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. The Company continues to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. In these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. It is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. To the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholders favor and other Company defenses are not successful, the Companys coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Accordingly, although the Company has seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. Many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. Because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. Settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to the Company but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. There also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for the Company. As in the past, the Company will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. On July 6, 2007, the Company announced that it entered into a settlement to resolve fully all current and future asbestos related coverage claims relating to ACandS, Inc. (ACandS), formerly a national distributor and installer of products containing asbestos. Pursuant to that agreement, the Company placed $449 million into escrow. The settlement was subject to a number of contingencies, all 92 Table of Contents of which have been fulfilled. On August 6, 2008, the Companys $449 million settlement payment was released from the escrow to the ACandS Trust. This transaction was recorded as a paid claim and reduction in claim reserves, and accordingly, there was no effect on the Companys results of operations. The Company is seeking to recover approximately $84 million of the $449 million from reinsurers; such a recovery would also have no effect on the Companys results of operations. In addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including the Company, by individuals challenging insurers conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos related bodily injuries. The Company anticipates the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including the Company, in the future. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims and has received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, had entered into settlement agreements, which had been approved by the court in connection with the proceedings initiated by TPC in the Johns Manville bankruptcy court. On March 29, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York substantially affirmed the bankruptcy courts orders, while vacating that portion of the bankruptcy courts orders which required all future direct actions against TPC to first be approved by the bankruptcy court before proceeding in state or federal court. Various parties appealed the district courts March 29, 2006 ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On February 15, 2008, the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating on jurisdictional grounds the District Courts approval of an order issued by the bankruptcy court prohibiting the prosecution of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions and the Common Law Claims, as well as future similar direct action litigation, against TPC. On February 29, 2008, TPC and certain other parties to the appeals filed petitions for rehearing and or rehearing en banc, requesting reinstatement of the district courts judgment, which were denied. TPC and certain other parties filed Petitions for Writ of Certiorari in the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuits decision and on December 12, 2008, the Petitions were granted. Unless the Supreme Court reverses the Second Circuits decision, and the bankruptcy courts order is reinstated and becomes final, the settlements will be voided and TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts due under the settlement agreements (other than certain administrative expenses). In that case, the Company intends to litigate the direct action cases vigorously. (For a description of these matters, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). Because each policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company generally reviews the exposure presented by each policyholder at least annually. In the course of this review, the Company generally considers, among other factors: available insurance coverage, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; limits and deductibles; an analysis of the policyholders potential liability; the jurisdictions involved; past and anticipated future claim activity and loss development on pending claims; past settlement values of similar claims; allocated claim adjustment expense; potential role of other insurance; the role, if any, of non asbestos claims or potential non asbestos claims in any resolution process; and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any, including the determination as to whether or not an asbestos claim is a products/completed operation claim subject to an aggregate limit and the available coverage, if any, for that claim. In the third quarter of 2008, the Company completed its annual in depth asbestos claim review. The trends observed over the past three reviews have been generally consistent. The trends include: more stable payment trends for a large proportion of policyholders; a decrease in the number of new claims received; 93 Table of Contents a decrease in the number of large asbestos exposures confronting the Company due to additional settlement activity; fewer and less volatile asbestos related bankruptcies; and the absence of new theories of liability or new classes of defendants. While the Company believes that these trends indicate a reduction in the volatility associated with the Companys overall asbestos exposure, there nonetheless remains a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims. As in prior years, the annual claim review considered active policyholders and litigation cases for potential product and "non product" liability. The Home Office and Field Office categories, which account for the vast majority of policyholders with active asbestos related claims, again experienced an overall reduction in new claim filings in 2008. The number of policyholders tendering asbestos claims for the first time was consistent with the number tendering claims in 2007. Defense and indemnity costs in these categories remain at similar levels to what the Company has experienced in recent years due to the level of trial activity involving impaired individuals. The Companys quarterly asbestos reserve review includes an analysis of exposure and claim payment patterns by policyholder category, as well as recent settlements, policyholder bankruptcies, judicial rulings and legislative actions. Developing payment trends among policyholders in the Home Office, Field Office and Assumed and International categories are also analyzed. In addition, the Company reviews its historical gross and net loss and expense paid experience, year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations, or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid activity. For certain policyholders an estimate of the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and related claim adjustment expense is determined, and for those policyholders the Company calculates, by each policy year, a ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, past ceded experience and reinsurance collections. Conventional actuarial methods are not utilized to establish asbestos reserves nor have the Companys evaluations resulted in any way of determining a meaningful average asbestos defense or indemnity payment. Net asbestos losses and expenses paid in 2008 were $658 million, compared with $317 million in 2007. The increase in net paid losses was the result of the ACandS payment in the third quarter of 2008. Excluding the ACandS settlement, payments in 2008 were $293 million. Approximately 59% and 20% of total net paid losses in 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to policyholders with whom the Company had entered into settlement agreements limiting the Companys liability. The Company categorizes its asbestos reserves as follows: Number of Policyholders Total Net Paid Net Asbestos Reserves (at and for the year ended December 31, $ in millions) 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Policyholders with settlement agreements 23 22 $ 389 $ 62 $ 749 $ 1,152 Home office and field office 1,651 1,659 217 211 1,983 2,116 Assumed reinsurance and other 41 35 182 224 International 11 9 242 Total 1,674 1,681 $ 658 $ 317 $ 2,914 $ 3,734 The "policyholders with settlement agreements" category includes structured settlements, coverage in place arrangements and, with respect to TPC, Wellington accounts. Reserves are based on the expected payout for each policyholder under the applicable agreement. Structured settlements are arrangements under which policyholders and or plaintiffs agree to fixed financial amounts to be paid at scheduled times. Included in this category are TPCs settlements of the Statutory and Hawaii Actions 94 Table of Contents and the Common Law Claims (collectively the Direct Action Settlement). As stated above unless the Second Circuits decision vacating the approval of the settlement is reversed and the bankruptcy courts order approving the settlement is reinstated and becomes final, the Direct Action Settlement will be voided and TPC will have no obligation to pay the amounts under the Direct Action Settlement (other than certain administrative expenses). In that event, the reserves assigned to the settlement will be returned to TPCs unallocated asbestos reserve. (For a description of these matters, see "Item 3 Legal Proceedings"). Coverage in place arrangements represent agreements with major policyholders on specified amounts of coverage to be provided. Payment obligations may be subject to annual maximums and are only made when valid claims are presented. Wellington accounts refer to the 35 defendants that are parties to a 1985 agreement settling certain disputes concerning insurance coverage for their asbestos claims. Many of the aspects of the Wellington agreement are similar to those of coverage in place arrangements in which the parties have agreed on specific amounts of coverage and the terms under which the coverage can be accessed. The "home office and field office" category relates to all other policyholders and also includes unallocated IBNR reserves. Policyholders are identified for home office review based upon, among other factors: a combination of past payments and current case reserves in excess of a specified threshold (currently $100,000), perceived level of exposure, number of reported claims, products/completed operations and potential "non product" exposures, size of policyholder and geographic distribution of products or services sold by the policyholder. In addition to IBNR amounts contained in the reserves for home office and field office policyholders and the costs of litigating asbestos coverage matters, the Company has established a reserve for further adverse development related to existing policyholders, new claims from policyholders reporting claims for the first time and policyholders for which there is, or may be, litigation and direct actions against the Company. On January 29, 2009, the Company and PPG Industries, Inc ("PPG"), along with approximately 30 other insurers of PPG, agreed in principle on a modified settlement agreement to settle asbestos related coverage litigation under insurance policies issued to PPG. The tentative settlement agreement has been incorporated into the Modified Third Amended Plan of Reorganization ("Amended Plan") proposed as part of the Pittsburgh Corning Corp. ("PCC", which is 50% owned by PPG) bankruptcy proceeding. Pursuant to the proposed Amended Plan, which was filed on January 30, 2009, PCC, along with enumerated other companies (including PPG as well as the Company as a participating insurer), are to receive protections afforded by Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code from certain asbestos related bodily injury claims. The Company had entered into a prior agreement in principle with PPG in 2002 which was contingent upon final court approval of the Second Amended Plan of Reorganization for PCC, but in December 2006, the United States Bankruptcy Court declined to confirm that Plan of Reorganization. As a result of the December 2006 ruling, the Company removed the reserves associated with the prior agreement from the structured settlement category of the asbestos reserve and made a corresponding increase in the unallocated asbestos IBNR reserve. Under the current agreement in principle, the Company has the option to make a series of payments over the next 20 years totaling approximately $620 million to the Trust to be created under the Amended Plan, or it may elect to make a one time discounted payment, which, as of June 30, 2009, would total approximately $430 million (approximately $400 million after reinsurance). The current agreement in principle with PPG is subject to numerous contingencies, including final court approval of the Amended Plan, and the Company has no obligation to make the settlement payment until all contingencies are satisfied. The Companys obligations under this agreement in principle continue to be included in the unallocated asbestos IBNR reserve. Assumed reinsurance exposure primarily consists of reinsurance of excess coverage, including various pool participations. Prior to the sale of Unionamerica in December 2008, International was exposed to U.S. asbestos liabilities through participations in excess insurance policies, quota share and excess of loss reinsurance policies, and retrocession policies, underwritten in the London insurance 95 Table of Contents market. Details of exposures under the reinsurance and retrocession policies were identified only when the Company was advised by the cedant. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claim and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net asbestos reserves of $330 million and $232 million, respectively. The Company recorded a $70 million pretax increase to asbestos reserves in 2008. The Company recorded no asbestos reserve additions in 2007, and recorded a pretax asbestos reserve addition of $155 million in 2006. The 2008 increase was driven by a change in the estimated costs associated with litigating asbestos coverage matters and a change in estimated losses for certain individual policyholders. The increase was not a result of a change in the Companys assessment of the underlying asbestos environment. Approximately half of the $155 million 2006 pretax reserve adjustment was due to an increase in the projected defense costs for ten policyholders. The majority of the remainder of the reserve adjustment was primarily due to continued litigation activity against smaller, peripheral defendants. Net asbestos reserves totaled $2.91 billion at December 31, 2008, compared with $3.73 billion at December 31, 2007. The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 4,353 $ 4,777 $ 5,103 Ceded (619 ) (726 ) (739 ) Net 3,734 4,051 4,364 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 70 (1 ) 196 Ceded 1 (41 ) Net 70 155 Accretion of discount: Direct 1 Ceded Net 1 Losses paid: Direct 794 423 523 Ceded (136 ) (106 ) (54 ) Net 658 317 469 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 330 Ceded (98 ) Net 232 Ending reserves: Direct 3,299 4,353 4,777 Ceded (385 ) (619 ) (726 ) Net $ 2,914 $ 3,734 $ 4,051 See " Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." 96  Table of Contents ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The Company continues to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties. The Company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. The Company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by the Company prior to the mid 1980s. These decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and the Company does not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. The resolution of environmental exposures by the Company generally occurs by settlement on a policyholder by policyholder basis as opposed to a claim by claim basis. Generally, the Company strives to extinguish any obligations it may have under any policy issued to the policyholder for past, present and future environmental liabilities and extinguish any pending coverage litigation dispute with the policyholder. This form of settlement is commonly referred to as a "buy back" of policies for future environmental liability. In addition, many of the agreements have also extinguished any insurance obligation which the Company may have for other claims, including but not limited to asbestos and other cumulative injury claims. The Company and its policyholders may also agree to settlements which extinguish any liability arising from known specified sites or claims. These agreements also include appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect the Company. The Companys general purpose in executing these agreements is to reduce the Companys potential environmental exposure and eliminate the risks presented by coverage litigation with the policyholder and related costs. In establishing environmental reserves, the Company evaluates the exposure presented by each policyholder and the anticipated cost of resolution, if any. In the course of this analysis, the Company generally considers the probable liability, available coverage, relevant judicial interpretations and historical value of similar exposures. In addition, the Company considers the many variables presented, such as the nature of the alleged activities of the policyholder at each site; the allegations of environmental harm at each site; the number of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at each site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site; the ownership and general use of each site; the overall nature of the insurance relationship between the Company and the policyholder, including the role of any umbrella or excess insurance the Company has issued to the policyholder; the involvement of other insurers; the potential for other available coverage, including the number of years of coverage; the role, if any, of non environmental claims or potential non environmental claims in any resolution process; and the applicable law in each jurisdiction. Conventional actuarial techniques are not used to estimate these reserves. In its review of environmental reserves, the Company considers: past settlement payments; changing judicial and legislative trends; its reserves for the costs of litigating environmental coverage matters; the potential for policyholders with smaller exposures to be named in new clean up actions for 97 Table of Contents both on and off site waste disposal activities; the potential for adverse development; the potential for additional new claims beyond previous expectations; and the potential higher costs for new settlements. The duration of the Companys investigation and review of these claims and the extent of time necessary to determine an appropriate estimate, if any, of the value of the claim to the Company vary significantly and are dependent upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the cooperation of the policyholder in providing claim information, the pace of underlying litigation or claim processes, the pace of coverage litigation between the policyholder and the Company and the willingness of the policyholder and the Company to negotiate, if appropriate, a resolution of any dispute pertaining to these claims. Because these factors vary from claim to claim and policyholder by policyholder, the Company cannot provide a meaningful average of the duration of an environmental claim. However, based upon the Companys experience in resolving these claims, the duration may vary from months to several years. The Company continues to receive notices from policyholders tendering claims for the first time. These policyholders generally present smaller exposures, have fewer sites and are lower tier defendants. Further, in many instances clean up costs have been reduced because regulatory agencies are willing to accept risk based site analyses and more efficient clean up technologies. However, the Company has experienced upward development in the anticipated defense and settlement costs for certain of its pending policyholders. As a result of this development, the Company increased its environmental reserve by $85 million in the second quarter of 2008. The Company continues to experience a decline in both the number of new policyholders tendering claims for the first time and the number of pending lawsuits between the Company and its policyholders pertaining to coverage for environmental claims; however, the Company has experienced a moderation in the rate of that decline in recent years. The Company increased its environmental reserve by $185 million in 2007 primarily in response to that moderation. In 2006, the Company increased environmental reserves by $120 million primarily as a result of higher than expected defense and settlement costs driven in part by adverse judicial developments in certain states regarding the availability of coverage for environmental claims. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica, which comprised its United Kingdom based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Included in the claim and claim adjustment expense reserves transferred to the purchaser were gross and net environmental reserves of $40 million and $33 million, respectively. Net paid losses in 2008 and 2007 were $128 million and $113 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008, approximately 92% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $381 million) was carried in a bulk reserve and included unresolved environmental claims, incurred but not reported environmental claims and the anticipated cost of coverage litigation disputes relating to these claims. The bulk reserve the Company carries is established and adjusted based upon the aggregate volume of in process environmental claims and the Companys experience in resolving those claims. The balance, approximately 8% of the net environmental reserve (approximately $33 million), consists of case reserves. 98 Table of Contents The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss expenses and reserves: (at and for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Beginning reserves: Direct $ 478 $ 413 $ 494 Ceded 12 5 (69 ) Net 490 418 425 Incurred losses and loss expenses: Direct 85 182 108 Ceded 3 12 Net 85 185 120 Losses paid: Direct 123 117 189 Ceded 5 (4 ) (62 ) Net 128 113 127 Sale of subsidiary: Direct 40 Ceded (7 ) Net 33 Ending reserves: Direct 400 478 413 Ceded 14 12 5 Net $ 414 $ 490 $ 418 UNCERTAINTY REGARDING ADEQUACY OF ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES As a result of the processes and procedures described above, management believes that the reserves carried for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2008 are appropriately established based upon known facts, current law and managements judgment. However, the uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. As a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. The continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies the Company has issued, the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with the Companys previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against the Company, future developments pertaining to the Companys ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims and the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. In addition, uncertainties arise from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants, although in recent years the Company has noted a decrease in the number and volatility of asbestos related bankruptcies. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. This development will be affected by future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations 99 Table of Contents near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. As part of its continuing analysis of asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company continues to study the implications of these and other developments. (Also, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, the Companys estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Companys operating results in future periods. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The Companys invested assets at December 31, 2008 totaled $70.74 billion, of which 94% was invested in fixed maturity and short term investments, 1% in equity securities, 1% in real estate and 4% in other investments. Because the primary purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future claims payments, the Company employs a conservative investment philosophy. A significant majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid intermediate term taxable U.S. government, tax exempt U.S. municipal bonds, and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage backed bonds. The Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2008 totaled $61.28 billion. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Companys insurance and debt obligations. The weighted average credit quality of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio, both including and excluding U.S. Treasury securities, was "Aa1" at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Below investment grade securities represented 2.0% and 2.5% of the total fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio, including short term investments, was 4.2 and 4.0 (4.6 and 4.3 excluding short term investments), at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following table sets forth the Companys combined fixed maturity investment portfolio rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist: (at December 31, 2008, in millions) Carrying Value Percent of Total Carrying Value Quality Rating: Aaa $ 30,878 50.4 % Aa 20,282 33.1 A 6,030 9.8 Baa 2,883 4.7 Total investment grade 60,073 98.0 Below investment grade 1,202 2.0 Total fixed maturity investments $ 61,275 100.0 % Included in the Companys fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2008 were $1.52 billion of debt securities issued by foreign governments and $12.79 billion of corporate fixed maturities and 100 Table of Contents redeemable preferred stock. These credit exposures are diversified across a number of countries and industries. The following table shows the industry sectors for those exposures. (at December 31, 2008, in millions) Carrying Value Average Credit Rating Credit Sector(1) Government: Debt securities issued by foreign governments $ 1,519 Aaa Corporate: Financial Bank 1,821 Aa3 Insurance 497 Aa3 Brokerage and asset management 282 A2 Finance/leasing 189 A3 Total financial 2,789 Industrial 4,972 Baa1 Public utility 1,956 Baa1 Sovereign corporate securities(2) 1,341 Aaa Commercial mortgage backed and project loans(3) 766 Aaa Canadian municipal securities 571 Aa1 Asset backed and other 399 A1 Total corporate 12,794 Total credit exposure $ 14,313 A1 (1)Credit sectors include debt securities issued by foreign governments, corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks. (2)Sovereign corporate securities include corporate securities that are backed by a government and include sovereign banks and securities issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty and the Federal Ship Financing Programs. (3)Included in Commercial mortgage backed securities and project loans are $221 million of securities guaranteed by the U.S. government and $37 million by government sponsored enterprises. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 included $39.06 billion of securities which are obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). The municipal bond portfolio is diversified across the United States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and includes general obligation and revenue bonds issued by states, cities, counties, school districts, and similar issuers. Included in the municipal bond portfolio are $5.45 billion of advance refunded or escrowed to maturity bonds. Advance refunded and escrowed to maturity bonds are bonds for which an irrevocable trust has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest. Such escrow accounts are verified as to their sufficiency by an external auditor and almost exclusively involve U.S. Treasury securities. The following 101 Table of Contents table shows the geographic distribution of the remaining $33.61 billion of municipal bonds which are not advance refunded or escrowed to maturity. State (in millions) State General Obligation Local General Obligation Revenue Total Market Value Average Quality Rating(1) Texas $ 379 $ 1,988 $ 1,362 $ 3,729 Aaa/Aa1 California 138 1,472 382 1,992 Aa1 Illinois 347 995 605 1,947 Aa1 Virginia 184 713 712 1,609 Aaa/Aa1 Florida 525 79 944 1,548 Aa1 Washington 420 699 383 1,502 Aa1 Maryland 499 576 247 1,322 Aaa/Aa1 Ohio 467 330 458 1,255 Aa1 Minnesota 427 606 211 1,244 Aaa/Aa1 Georgia 476 387 345 1,208 Aaa/Aa1 New York 49 191 930 1,170 Aa1 Arizona 454 627 1,081 Aa1 North Carolina 522 436 118 1,076 Aaa Michigan 157 337 530 1,024 Aa1 All Others(2) 3,255 3,509 5,135 11,899 Aa1 Total $ 7,845 $ 12,772 $ 12,989 $ 33,606 Aa1 (1)Rated using external ratings agencies or by the Company when a public rating does not exist. Ratings shown are the higher of the rating of the underlying issuer or the insurer in the case of securities enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of issuer default. (2)No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total non advance refunded or escrowed to maturity municipal bonds. The Company bases its investment decision on the credit characteristics of the municipal security; however, within its municipal bond portfolio are a number of securities that were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade during 2008 of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal securities in the Companys investment portfolio, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 81% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. The Company believes that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2008. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2008 with and without the third party insurance. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company held commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS, including FHA project loans) of $766 million and $935 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008, approximately $258 million of these securities, or the loans backing such securities, contain guarantees by the United States Government or a government sponsored enterprise and $20 million were comprised of Canadian non guaranteed securities. The average credit rating of the $508 million of non guaranteed securities at December 31, 2008 was "Aaa," and 93% of those securities were issued in 2004 and prior years. The CMBS portfolio is supported by loans that are diversified across economic 102 Table of Contents sectors and geographical areas. The Company does not believe this portfolio exposes it to a material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of these securities. The Company makes investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) that typically have high credit quality, offer good liquidity and are expected to provide an advantage in yield compared to U.S. Treasury securities. The Companys investment strategy is to purchase CMO tranches which offer the most favorable return given the risks involved. One significant risk evaluated is prepayment sensitivity. While prepayment risk (either shortening or lengthening of duration) and its effect on total return cannot be fully controlled, particularly when interest rates move dramatically, the investment process generally favors securities that control this risk within expected interest rate ranges. The Company does invest in other types of CMO tranches if a careful assessment indicates a favorable risk/return tradeoff. The Company does not purchase residual interests in CMOs. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company held CMOs classified as available for sale with a fair value of $2.84 billion and $3.59 billion, respectively (in addition to the CMBS securities of $766 million and $935 million, respectively, described above). Approximately 35% and 31% of the Companys CMO holdings are guaranteed by or fully collateralized by securities issued by GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, the Company held $3.22 billion and $3.52 billion of GNMA, FNMA, FHLMC (excluding FHA project loans which are included with CMBS) mortgage backed pass through securities classified as available for sale at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average credit rating of all of the above securities was "Aaa" at both dates. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $206 million and $286 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.3% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $47 million and $89 million of such securities in 2008 and the fourth quarter of 2007, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Aa2" and "Aaa" at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately $81 million of the Companys asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2008. The Companys real estate investments include warehouses and office buildings and other commercial land and properties that are directly owned. The Companys other investments are primarily comprised of private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures, mortgage loans, venture capital (through direct ownership and limited partnerships) and trading securities, which are subject to more volatility than the Companys fixed maturity investments. While these asset classes have historically provided a higher return than fixed maturities, in 2008 the returns were significantly lower than in prior periods and, in the aggregate, produced negative investment income, reflecting market conditions. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the carrying value of the Companys other investments was $3.04 billion and $3.37 billion, respectively. 103 Table of Contents The Company has engaged in securities lending activities from which it generates net investment income from the lending of certain of its investments to other institutions for short periods of time. Borrowers of these securities provide collateral equal to at least 102% of the market value of the loaned securities plus accrued interest. This collateral is held by a third party custodian, and the Company has the right to access the collateral only in the event that the institution borrowing the Companys securities is in default under the lending agreement. Therefore, the Company does not recognize the receipt of the collateral held by the third party custodian or the obligation to return the collateral. The loaned securities remain a recorded asset of the Company. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company changed its securities lending requirements in light of the recent market conditions to accept only cash as collateral for securities on loan and restricted the manner in which that cash was invested. These actions resulted in a significant reduction in the amount of securities on loan. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $8 million of securities on loan to others, compared with $1.99 billion at December 31, 2007. The Company has not incurred any investment losses in its securities lending program for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. The net unrealized investment gains (losses) that were included as a separate component of accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Fixed maturities $ (294 ) $ 768 $ 422 Equity securities (82 ) 15 37 Venture capital 8 17 108 Other investments 115 138 113 Unrealized investment gains (losses) before tax (253 ) 938 680 Tax expense (benefit) (109 ) 318 227 Net unrealized investment gains (losses) at end of year $ (144 ) $ 620 $ 453 Net pretax unrealized investment losses totaled $253 million at December 31, 2008, compared with net pretax unrealized investment gains of $938 million at December 31, 2007. The net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 reflected the impact of rising interest rates on longer dated fixed maturity securities (primarily due to the widening of credit spreads generally), as well as net unrealized investment losses on equity securities, which reflected current market conditions. Net pretax unrealized investment gains at December 31, 2007 increased by $258 million over year end 2006, primarily driven by the fixed maturity portfolio. The increase in net unrealized investment gains on fixed maturities was primarily driven by the impact of declining market interest rates on both taxable and tax exempt securities, which were partially offset by an increase in credit spreads and a decrease in unrealized investment gains in the venture capital portfolio, primarily due to sale activities. In May 2007, the Company completed a bundled sale of a substantial portion of its venture capital portfolio, which resulted in the realization of $81 million of previously unrealized net investment gains. 104  Table of Contents Impairment charges included in net realized investment gains (losses) were as follows: (for the year ended December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Fixed maturities $ 324 $ 37 $ 7 Equity securities 74 7 4 Other investments 22 26 37 Total $ 420 $ 70 $ 48 For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $324 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $210 million related to the deteriorated financial position of various issuers (of which $70 million related to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries), $81 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value and $33 million resulting from the intent or potential to sell various holdings prior to a recovery in market value; $74 million in the equity portfolio consisting of $26 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value, $26 million related to securities with respect to which it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period and $22 million resulting from the intent or potential to sell prior to a recovery in market value; $14 million in the venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings, consisting of $6 million related to six holdings which were externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value and ten holdings which experienced fundamental economic deterioration; and $8 million in other investments of which $6 million related to the fundamental decline in the financial condition of a privately held investment and $2 million resulted from the intent or potential to sell prior to a recovery in market value. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $37 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $23 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value, and $14 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position; $7 million in the equity portfolio related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value; $10 million in the real estate portfolio, related to the fundamental decline in the financial condition of one real estate development property; and $16 million in the venture capital portfolio on 14 holdings. Three of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period. Nine holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). The remaining two holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. 105 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recognized the following other than temporary impairments: $7 million in the fixed maturities portfolio, consisting of $6 million related to externally managed securities with respect to which the Company does not have the ability to assert an intention to hold until recovery in market value and $1 million related to credit risk associated with various issuers deteriorated financial position; $4 million in the equity portfolio when it was determined that the cost basis of those securities would not be recovered over the expected holding period; $33 million in the venture capital portfolio on 16 holdings. Four of the holdings were impaired due to new financings on unfavorable terms. Six holdings experienced fundamental economic deterioration (characterized by less than expected revenues or a fundamental change in product). Four of the holdings were impaired due to the impending sale, liquidation or shutdown of the entity. Two of the holdings were public securities whose cost basis was not anticipated to be recovered over the expected holding period; and $4 million in other investments (excluding venture capital). The loss recorded was the result of one mortgage loan refinancing at less favorable terms. The market disruptions that occurred in the second half of 2008 led to many of the 2008 impairment losses and resulted in increased unrealized losses compared with previous years. The Company continually evaluates current developments in the market that have the potential to affect the valuation of the Companys investments. The following table summarizes, for all fixed maturities and equity securities available for sale and for equity securities reported at fair value for which fair value is less than 80% of amortized cost at December 31, 2008, the gross unrealized investment loss by length of time those securities have continuously been in an unrealized loss position of greater than 20% of amortized cost: Period For Which Fair Value Is Less Than 80% of Amortized Cost (in millions) Less Than 3 Months Greater Than 3 Months, Less Than 6 Months Greater Than 6 Months, Less Than 12 Months Greater Than 12 Months Total Fixed maturities: Mortgage backed securities $ 222 $ 36 $ 1 $ $ 259 Other 329 73 12 414 Total fixed maturities 551 109 13 673 Equity securities 41 30 71 Total $ 592 $ 139 $ 13 $ $ 744 These unrealized losses at December 31, 2008 represent approximately 1% of the combined fixed maturity and equity security portfolios on a pretax basis and approximately 2% of shareholders equity on an after tax basis. For fixed maturity investments where fair value is less than the carrying value and the Company did not reach a decision to impair, the Company continues to have the intent and ability to hold such investments to a projected recovery in value, which may not be until maturity. At December 31, 2008, below investment grade securities comprised 2.0% of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio. Included in below investment grade securities at December 31, 2008 were securities in an unrealized loss position that, in the aggregate, had an amortized cost of $1.34 billion and a fair value of $1.08 billion, resulting in a net pretax unrealized investment loss of 106 Table of Contents $258 million. These securities in an unrealized loss position represented approximately 2% of both the total amortized cost and the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2008. These securities accounted for 15% of the total pretax unrealized investment loss in the fixed maturity portfolio at December 31, 2008. Following are the pretax realized losses on investments sold during the year ended December 31, 2008: (in millions) Loss Fair Value Fixed maturities $ 168 $ 2,735 Equity securities 4 17 Total $ 172 $ 2,752 Purchases and sales of investments are based on cash requirements, the characteristics of the insurance liabilities and current market conditions. The Company identifies investments to be sold to achieve its primary investment goals of assuring the Companys ability to meet policyholder obligations as well as to optimize investment returns, given these obligations. CATASTROPHE MODELING The Company uses various analyses and methods, including computer modeling techniques, to analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. The Company uses these analyses and methods to make underwriting and reinsurance decisions designed to manage its exposure to catastrophic events. In making underwriting and reinsurance decisions, for hurricane and earthquake exposures, the Company uses third party proprietary computer modeling in an attempt to estimate the likelihood that the loss from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed a particular amount. The tables below set forth the estimated probabilities that losses from a single event occurring in a one year timeframe will equal or exceed the indicated loss amounts (expressed in dollars and as a percentage of the Companys common equity). For example, on the basis described below the tables, the Company estimates that there is a one percent chance that the Companys loss from a single U.S. hurricane occurring in a one year timeframe would equal or exceed $1.3 billion, or 5 percent of the Companys common equity at December 31, 2008. Dollars (in billions) Likelihood of Exceedance(1) Single Hurricane Single Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) $ 1.1 $ 0.4 1.0% (1 in 100) $ 1.3 $ 0.6 0.4% (1 in 250) $ 2.1 $ 0.9 0.1% (1 in 1,000) $ 4.8 $ 2.1 107 Table of Contents Percentage of Common Equity Likelihood of Exceedance Single Hurricane Single Earthquake 2.0% (1 in 50) 4 % 2 % 1.0% (1 in 100) 5 % 3 % 0.4% (1 in 250) 8 % 4 % 0.1% (1 in 1,000) 19 % 8 % (1)An event that has, for example, a 2% likelihood of exceedance is sometimes described as a "1 in 50 year event." As noted above, however, the probabilities in the table represent the likelihood of losses from a single event equaling or exceeding the indicated threshold loss amount in a one year timeframe, not over a multi year timeframe. Also, because the probabilities relate to a single event, the probabilities do not address the likelihood of more than one event occurring in a particular period, and, therefore, the amounts do not address potential aggregate catastrophe losses occurring in a one year timeframe. The threshold loss amounts in the tables above are net of reinsurance, after tax and exclude loss adjustment expense, which historically has been less than 10% of loss estimates. The amounts for hurricanes reflect U.S. exposures and include property exposures, other than offshore energy and marine exposures, property residual market exposures and an adjustment for certain non property exposures. The amounts for earthquakes reflect U.S. and Canadian exposures and include property exposures and workers compensation exposures. The Company does not believe that the inclusion of hurricane or earthquake losses arising from other geographical areas or other exposures would materially change the estimated threshold loss amounts. This information in the tables is based on the Companys in force portfolio and catastrophic reinsurance program as of December 31, 2008. Catastrophe modeling requires a significant amount of judgment and a number of assumptions and relies upon inputs based on experience, science, engineering and history. As a result, such models may fail to account for risks that are outside the range of normal probability or that are otherwise unforeseeable. Catastrophe modeling assumptions include, among others, the portion of purchased reinsurance that is collectible after a catastrophic event, which may prove to be materially incorrect. Consequently, catastrophe modeling estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. In the tables above, the uncertainty associated with the estimated threshold loss amounts increases significantly as the likelihood of exceedance decreases. In other words, in the case of a relatively more remote event (e.g., 1 in 1000), the estimated threshold loss amount is relatively less reliable. Actual losses from an event could materially exceed the indicated threshold loss amount. In addition, more than one such event could occur in any period. Moreover, the Company is exposed to the risk of material losses from other than property and workers compensation coverages arising out of hurricanes and earthquakes, and it is exposed to catastrophe losses from perils other than hurricanes and earthquakes, for example, floods, tornadoes and acts of terrorism. There are no industry standard methodologies or assumptions for projecting catastrophe exposure. Accordingly, catastrophe estimates provided by different insurers may not be comparable. For more information about the Companys exposure to catastrophe losses, see "Item 1A Risk Factors Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." 108 Table of Contents REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools, and is generally subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices and the price of their product offerings. After reinsurance is purchased, the Company has limited ability to manage the credit risk to a reinsurer. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterpartys consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and or court authority. The Companys reinsurance recoverables totaled $14.23 billion at December 31, 2008, a decline of $1.41 billion from year end 2007, primarily reflecting the sale of Unionamerica, various commutation agreements and collections on reinsurance recoverables, including those related to prior years hurricane losses. The Company has also entered into Master Security Agreements with certain reinsurers. These agreements define conditions that require the reinsurer to provide collateral. The specific conditions and the amounts and form of collateral to be provided by these agreements vary based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the reinsurers legal structure and trading history with the Company. One such agreement has been reached with XL Re America, a member of XL Capital Group. In addition, the Company is beneficiary under a trust arrangement with XL Re America which partially covers reinsurance recoverables from XL Re America at December 31, 2008. The following table presents the Companys top five reinsurer groups by reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2008 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of each reinsurer group at February 19, 2009: Reinsurer Group Reinsurance Recoverable A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Reinsurer Swiss Re Group $ 1,009 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Munich Re Group 831 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Berkshire Hathaway Group 495 A++ highest of 16 ratings Transatlantic Holdings, Inc.(1) 495 A third highest of 16 ratings XL Capital Group 465 A third highest of 16 ratings (1)As a result of the September 29, 2008 announcement that a Special Committee of Transatlantic Holdings, Inc.s (TRH) independent directors is evaluating proposals received from American International Group, Inc. (AIG) relating to the possible disposition of AIGs 59% common stock interest in TRH, as well as possible business combination transactions involving TRHs outstanding shares, the reinsurance recoverables from TRH are now being reported separately. These amounts were previously reported combined with the reinsurance recoverables from AIG (totaling $71 million at December 31, 2008 exclusive of TRH). At December 31, 2008, $2.56 billion of reinsurance recoverables were collateralized by letters of credit, trust agreements and funds held. Included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. Structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle 109 Table of Contents certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as the Company retains the contingent liability to the claimant. In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, the Company would be required to make such payments. The following table presents the Companys top five groups by structured settlements at December 31, 2008 (in millions). Also included is the A.M. Best rating of the Companys predominant insurer from each insurer group at February 19, 2009: Group Structured Settlements A.M. Best Rating of Groups Predominant Insurer Old Mutual $ 1,075 A third highest of 16 ratings MetLife 554 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Genworth 485 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Symetra 296 A third highest of 16 ratings ING Group 242 A+ second highest of 16 ratings Many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies have been negatively impacted by deteriorating economic conditions, including unprecedented financial market disruption. A number of such companies have been subjected to downgrades and or negative outlook changes by various ratings agencies, including those with which the Company conducts business. The Company considers these factors in assessing the adequacy of its allowance for uncollectible amounts. OUTLOOK The Companys objective is to enhance its position as a consistently profitable market leader and a cost effective provider of property and casualty insurance in the United States and in selected international markets. A variety of factors continue to affect the property and casualty insurance market and the Companys core business outlook for 2009, including general economic conditions, competitive conditions in the markets served by the Companys business segments, loss cost trends, interest rate trends and the investment environment. General Economic Conditions. The United States and other countries around the world have been experiencing deteriorating economic conditions, including unprecedented financial market disruption. If this trend in economic conditions continues or deteriorates further in 2009, it could adversely affect the Companys results in future periods. During an economic downturn, demand for the Companys products may decrease, and credit risk associated with agents, customers, reinsurers and the Companys investment portfolio may be adversely impacted. In addition, in an inflationary environment, loss costs may increase. Such costs may also increase in an economic downturn, due to an increase in fraudulent reporting of claims, reduced maintenance of insured property or increased frequency of small claims. Moreover, although the Company does not anticipate needing additional capital in the near term due to the Companys strong current financial position, financial market disruption may make it difficult for the insurance industry generally, and the Company in particular, to raise additional capital, when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. As discussed below, losses on the Companys investment portfolio may adversely impact the Companys shareholders equity and statutory surplus. As further discussed below, the interest rate environment and general economic conditions could further impact the net investment income the Company is able to earn on both its fixed maturity investments and other invested assets. Competition. The Company expects property casualty insurance market conditions to continue to be very competitive in 2009, particularly for new business. If the current disruption in the insurance marketplace continues into 2009, there may be increased opportunity for new business, but competition for that new business may also be significant. For example, competitors that are experiencing financial difficulties may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with the Companys 110 Table of Contents economic standards in an effort to maintain their business. The pricing environment for new business generally has less of an impact on underwriting profitability than renewal price changes, particularly in an environment of high retention rates, which the Company has experienced over the past several years. In the Business Insurance and the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments, the Company expects renewal price changes in 2009 to be flat with or modestly increase over their 2008 levels. With regard to the components comprising renewal price changes, the potential slight improvement in rates in 2009 in some product lines is expected to be largely offset by a decline in exposures. In the Personal Insurance segment in 2009, the Company expects that automobile and homeowners renewal price changes will increase slightly over their 2008 levels. These expectations for the pricing environment, when combined with expected modestly increased loss costs, will likely result in somewhat reduced underwriting profitability. Loss Cost Trends. Loss cost trends are primarily driven by changes in claim frequency and claim severity. The industry has generally experienced unprecedented low levels of non catastrophe related claim frequency over the last several years. The Company expects this level of claim frequency to continue in 2009 in certain lines of business, while claim frequency is expected to increase modestly for other lines of business. The Company also expects severity to increase modestly for non catastrophe related claims. In the Business Insurance and Financial, Professional & International Insurance segments, the Company experienced a higher than anticipated level of large, non weather related losses during 2008. In the Personal Insurance segment, the Company experienced a higher than anticipated level of non catastrophe weather related losses during 2008. If these are trends that continue in 2009, they could result in reduced underwriting profit. The overall trend of increased frequency and severity of catastrophic Gulf and Atlantic Coast storms experienced in recent years may continue for the foreseeable future. Given the potential increase in frequency and severity of storms, the Company continues to reassess its definition of, and exposure to, coastal risks. These risks are reflected in the pricing and terms and conditions it will offer in coastal areas. Due in part to the increased frequency and severity of the Gulf and Atlantic Coast storms, there has been some disruption in the market for coastal wind insurance, most significantly in personal lines, as insurers, including the Company, have reduced capacity and increased prices. The continued disruption in market conditions, along with the potential for increased frequency and severity of coastal storms, could result in a decrease in the amount of coastal wind coverage that the Company is able or willing to write. In recent periods, the Company has recorded net favorable prior year reserve development, driven by better than expected loss experience in all of the Companys segments for prior loss years. If better than expected loss experience continues, the Company may record additional net favorable prior year reserve development in 2009. In that case, the Company may also concurrently revise favorably its current year loss estimates. However, better than expected loss experience may not continue or may reverse, in which case the Company may record no favorable prior year reserve development or net unfavorable prior year reserve development in future periods. In that case, the Company may revise current year loss estimates upward in future periods. Interest Rate Trends and the Investment Environment. Changes in the general interest rate environment affect the returns available on new investments. While a rising interest rate environment enhances the returns available on new fixed maturity investments, thereby favorably impacting net investment income, it reduces the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, and therefore, shareholders equity. A decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments, thereby negatively impacting net investment income, but increases the market value of existing investments and therefore, shareholders equity. In 2008 and 2007, short term interest rates declined, reducing the interest income on the Companys short term investment portfolio. In the second half of 2008, credit spreads on other than short term investments, which represent the difference between a risk free yield (i.e. the yield on U.S. Treasury securities) and the actual yield on a fixed income 111 Table of Contents investment, increased significantly. This resulted in a decline in the market value of existing other than short term fixed maturity investments, and therefore, shareholders equity. The Company had a net pretax unrealized loss of $294 million in its fixed maturities portfolio at December 31, 2008, compared with a net pretax unrealized gain of $768 million at December 31, 2007. The market disruption that occurred in the second half of 2008 resulted in a lack of liquidity in certain sectors of the credit markets and a widening of credit spreads generally. At December 31, 2008, the Company had unrealized investment losses of $744 million on securities for which fair value was less than 80% of cost of the security. Approximately $592 million of the unrealized investment losses had continuously been in an unrealized loss position of greater than 20% of cost for less than three months. If the market disruption continues and interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) remain steady or rise, the amount of securities in an unrealized loss of greater than 20% may age and significant additional unrealized investment losses could occur in the portfolio. These circumstances may result in significant realized losses through sales of securities or other than temporary impairment charges in 2009. At December 31, 2008, approximately 5% of the Companys invested assets were comprised of equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures, mortgage loans, venture capital investments and trading securities, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed maturity investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond the Companys control may affect the value of these non fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income. For example, reduced liquidity in the capital markets could adversely impact the Companys investment portfolio, particularly investments in private equity limited partnerships, real estate partnerships and hedge funds, resulting in a decline in transaction volume in these asset classes, and as a result, lower net investment income. For the year ended December 31, 2008, these non fixed maturity investments collectively produced negative investment income. If the current unfavorable economic environment persists in 2009, the Company may continue to experience negative returns from these investments. The Company is not able to predict future market conditions or their impact on net investment income. Net investment income is an important contributor to the Companys results of operations, and the Company expects the investment environment to remain challenging in 2009, particularly with respect to its non fixed maturity investment portfolio. For a discussion of potential risks that could impact the Companys financial condition or results of operations, see "Item 1A Risk Factors" in this report. 112  Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of its business operations. The liquidity requirements of the Companys business have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, asset maturities and income received on investments. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for claims and claim adjustment expense payments and operating expenses. The timing and amount of catastrophe claims are inherently unpredictable. Such claims increase liquidity requirements. The timing and amount of reinsurance recoveries may be affected by reinsurer solvency and reinsurance coverage disputes. Additionally, the variability of asbestos related claim payments, as well as the volatility of potential judgments and settlements arising out of litigation, may also result in increased liquidity requirements. It is the opinion of the Companys management that the Companys future liquidity needs will be adequately met from all of the above sources. At December 31, 2008, total cash, short term invested assets and other readily marketable securities aggregating $2.15 billion were held at the holding company. The assets held at the holding company, combined with other sources of funds available, primarily additional dividends from operating subsidiaries, are sufficient to meet the holding companys current liquidity requirements. These liquidity requirements primarily include shareholder dividends and debt service. The Companys insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. A maximum of $3.07 billion is available in 2009 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The holding company received $3.70 billion of dividends from its domestic insurance subsidiaries in 2008. The Company has a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission which permits it to issue securities. The Company also has a $1.0 billion line of credit facility with several major banks that expires in the second quarter of 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company replaced Lehman Brothers Bank, FSBs $60 million participation in this facility through an assignment to another financial institution. This line of credit also backs up the Companys $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2008. The Company is not reliant on its commercial paper program to meet its operating cash flow needs. The Company currently utilizes letters of credit issued by major banks to support its operations at Lloyds. As a result of movements in foreign currency exchange rates, additional capital, which the Company expects to provide by obtaining additional letters of credit issued by major banks, will be required in the near term to support the Companys operations at Lloyds. If letters of credit are not available at a reasonable price or at all in the future, the Company may have to seek alternative means of supporting its operations at Lloyds, which could include utilizing holding company funds on hand. Operating Activities Net cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $3.14 billion, $5.29 billion and $4.77 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Cash flows in 2008 reflected an increase in claim payments (including the impact of higher catastrophe losses and the $449 million asbestos settlement payment related to ACandS, Inc., which is discussed in more detail in the "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" section herein), and a reduction in reinsurance recoveries compared with 2007. In addition, the Company made a $450 million contribution to its pension plan in 2008. No pension plan contribution was made in 2007. Cash flows in each of 2007 and 2006, as compared to the preceding year, reflected higher levels of collected premiums and net investment income, lower claim payments on catastrophe losses, as well as lower runoff claim payments. Cash flows from operations in 2007 and 2006 benefited from significant collections on reinsurance recoverables in both years, including those related to 2005 hurricane losses, operations in runoff (primarily Gulf) and various commutation agreements. These 113 Table of Contents factors were partially offset by an increase in tax payments resulting from higher profitability, expenses related to increased business volume and continued expenditures to support business growth and product development, and higher interest payments. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities totaled $162 million, $2.53 billion and $3.06 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Fixed maturity securities accounted for the majority of investment purchases in all three years. The Companys consolidated total investments at December 31, 2008 declined $4.08 billion from year end 2007, reflecting the $2.12 billion of common share repurchases made during 2008, a $1.19 billion pretax decline in the unrealized appreciation of investments since year end 2007 (to an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008), the sale of Unionamerica and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by investment purchases resulting from strong cash flows from operations. The net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 reflected the impact of rising interest rates on longer dated fixed maturity securities primarily due to the widening of credit spreads generally. The Companys management of the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio generally produces a duration that exceeds the estimated duration of the Companys net insurance liabilities. The average duration of fixed maturities and short term securities was 4.2 and 4.0 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The primary goals of the Companys asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Companys fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Companys insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, provide assurance of the Companys ability to fund the payment of claims without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled $2.87 billion, $2.95 billion and $1.59 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The 2008 total primarily reflected common share repurchases, the repayment of debt and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by the net proceeds from debt issuances and employee stock option exercises. The 2007 and 2006 totals primarily reflected common share repurchases, the early redemption of debt, the repayment of maturing debt and dividends to shareholders, partially offset by the issuance of debt and proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Debt Transactions. 2008. On March 15, 2008, the Companys $400 million, 3.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. On May 13, 2008, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% senior notes that will mature on May 15, 2018. The net proceeds of the issuance, after original issuance discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, totaled approximately $496 million. Interest on the senior notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2008. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed 114 Table of Contents (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points for the senior notes. On December 15, 2008, two medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $149 million, each bearing an interest rate of 6.38%, matured and were fully paid. 2007. In January 2007, the Company redeemed $81 million of 8.47% subordinated debentures originally issued in 1997 and due January 10, 2027. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after January 10, 2007. In January 1997, USF&G Capital II, a business trust, issued $100 million of capital securities, the proceeds of which, along with $3 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by USF&G Corporation and subsequently assumed by the Company after the merger of The St. Paul Companies Inc. (SPC) and Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC). During the period prior to redemption, the Company had repurchased and retired $22 million of the debentures in open market transactions. Upon the Companys redemption of the remaining $81 million of subordinated debentures in January 2007, USF&G Capital II in turn used the proceeds to redeem its remaining capital securities outstanding. USF&G Capital II was then liquidated, and the Company received a $3 million distribution of capital. The Company recorded a $3 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, due to the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date, less the redemption premium paid. In March 2007, the Company issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.25% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated debentures due March 15, 2067 for net proceeds of $986 million (after original issue discount and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses). The debentures were issued at a discount, resulting in an effective interest rate of 6.447%. The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 6.25% from the date of issuance to, but excluding, March 15, 2017, payable semi annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15. From and including March 15, 2017, the debentures will bear interest at an annual rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 2.215%, payable quarterly on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year. The Company has the right, on one or more occasions, to defer the payment of interest on the debentures. The Company will not be required to settle deferred interest until it has deferred interest for five consecutive years or, if earlier, made a payment of current interest during a deferral period. The Company may defer interest for up to ten consecutive years without giving rise to an event of default. Deferred interest will accumulate additional interest at an annual rate equal to the annual interest rate then applicable to the debentures. The debentures carry a 60 year final maturity and a scheduled maturity date in year thirty. During the 180 day period ending not more than fifteen and not less than ten business days prior to the scheduled maturity date, the Company is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell enough qualifying capital securities, or at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit repayment of the debentures at the scheduled maturity date. If any debentures remain outstanding after the scheduled maturity date, the unpaid amount will remain outstanding until the Company has raised sufficient proceeds from the sale of qualifying capital securities or, at its option, common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity or debt exchangeable for preferred equity to permit the repayment in full of the debentures. If there are remaining debentures at the final maturity date, the Company is required to redeem the debentures using any source of funds. Qualifying capital securities are securities (other than common stock, qualifying warrants, mandatorily convertible preferred stock, debt exchangeable for common equity, and debt exchangeable for preferred equity) which generally are treated by the ratings agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. 115 Table of Contents The Company can redeem the debentures at its option, in whole or in part, at any time on or after March 15, 2017 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued but unpaid interest. The Company can redeem the debentures at its option prior to March 15, 2017 (a) in whole at any time or in part from time to time or (b) in whole, but not in part, in the event of certain tax or rating agency events relating to the debentures, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed and the applicable make whole amount, in each case plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with the offering of the debentures, the Company entered into a "replacement capital covenant" for the benefit of holders of one or more designated series of the Companys indebtedness (which will initially be the 6.750% senior notes due 2036). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, if the Company redeems the debentures at any time prior to March 15, 2047 it can only do so with the proceeds of securities that are treated by the rating agencies as having similar equity content to the debentures. In March 2007, the Companys $500 million, 5.75% senior notes matured and were fully paid. In April 2007, the Company completed the redemption of its outstanding $893 million, 4.50% convertible junior subordinated notes due in 2032 (the notes). The notes were originally issued by Travelers Property Casualty Corp., and the Company assumed certain obligations relating to the notes pursuant to a Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 1, 2004. Each note had a principal amount of $25.00. The redemption price for each note was $25.5625 plus $0.009375 of accrued and unpaid interest. Any note called for redemption could be surrendered for conversion into common stock before the close of business on April 17, 2007. Each note was convertible into 0.4684 shares of common stock of The Travelers Companies, Inc. Holders of $36 million of the notes tendered their certificates in exchange for the issuance of 670,910 of the Companys common shares. The remaining $857 million of notes were redeemed for cash, along with accrued interest to the date of redemption. The Company recorded a $39 million pretax loss ($25 million after tax) in other revenues in the second quarter of 2007 related to the redemption, consisting of the redemption premium paid and the write off of remaining unamortized issuance costs. In May 2007, the Company issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior notes due June 15, 2012 (the 2012 senior notes), $450 million aggregate principal amount of 5.750% senior notes due December 15, 2017 (the 2017 senior notes), and $800 million aggregate principal amount of 6.250% senior notes due June 15, 2037 (the 2037 senior notes). The total net proceeds of these three senior note issuances, after original issuance discounts and the deduction of underwriting expenses and commissions and other expenses, were approximately $1.47 billion. Interest on each of the senior note issuances is payable semi annually on June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2007. Each series of senior notes is redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Companys option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of senior notes to be redeemed, or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the senior notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semi annual basis (assuming a 360 day year consisting of twelve 30 day months) at the then current Treasury Rate plus 12.5 basis points for the 2012 senior notes, 15 basis points for the 2017 senior notes and 20 basis points for the 2037 senior notes. The Company applied a portion of the net proceeds of this offering to repay approximately $442 million of senior notes maturing on August 16, 2007 and to repay approximately $42 million of medium term notes maturing in the third quarter of 2007. The remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Prior to applying these proceeds, the Company invested them in investment grade, marketable securities. In August 2007, the Companys $442 million, 5.01% senior notes matured and were fully paid. 116 Table of Contents In 2007, medium term notes with a cumulative par value of $72 million and interest rates ranging from 6.85% to 7.37% matured and were fully paid. 2006. In June 2006, the Company issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2016 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior unsecured notes due June 20, 2036. The notes were issued at a discount, resulting in effective interest rates of 6.30% and 6.86%, respectively. Net proceeds from the issuances (after original issue discount and expenses) totaled approximately $786 million, which the Company applied to the redemption of approximately $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures (described in more detail below), $150 million of 6.75% senior notes that matured on November 15, 2006 and $56 million of medium term notes that matured in the second half of the year. In November 2006, the Company redeemed $593 million of 7.60% subordinated debentures originally issued in 2001 and due October 15, 2050. The debentures were redeemable by the Company on or after November 13, 2006. In November 2001, St. Paul Capital Trust I, a business trust, issued $575 million of preferred securities, the proceeds of which, along with $18 million in capital provided by the Company, were used to purchase the subordinated debentures issued by the Company. Upon the Companys redemption of its subordinated debentures in November 2006, St. Paul Capital Trust I in turn used the proceeds to redeem its preferred securities. St. Paul Capital Trust I was then liquidated, and the Company received an $18 million distribution of capital. The Company recorded a $42 million pretax gain on the redemption of the subordinated debentures, representing the remaining unamortized fair value adjustment recorded at the merger date. A portion of the proceeds from the June 2006 debt issuances described above was used to fund this redemption. The Companys debt to capital ratio of 19.5% at December 31, 2008 was slightly below its 20% targeted level. The amounts of debt obligations, other than commercial paper, that becomes due in 2009, 2010 and 2011, are $143 million, $273 million and $11 million, respectively. Dividends. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $715 million, $742 million and $702 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. On February 4, 2009, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share, payable March 31, 2009 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2009. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of the Companys common stock will be at the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys financial position, earnings, capital requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Dividends would be paid by the Company only if declared by its board of directors out of funds legally available, subject to any other restrictions that may be applicable to the Company. Share Repurchases. In January 2008, the board of directors authorized an additional $5 billion for the repurchase of the Companys common shares. Under the authorization, repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, pursuant to preset trading plans meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5 1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in private transactions or otherwise. The authorization does not have a stated expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price, catastrophe losses and other market conditions. Share repurchase levels in prior periods may not be indicative of future repurchase activity. Notwithstanding the Companys financial strength and liquidity, in light of the recent disruption in the financial markets, the Company reduced its level of share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to prior quarters and will likely reduce its share repurchases in 2009 as compared to the level of repurchases in preceding years, although the Companys plans may change depending on market conditions, potential investment opportunities, the Companys share price performance or other factors. This potential reduction in 117 Table of Contents share repurchases in 2009 reflects uncertainty with regard to current economic conditions and not a fundamental change in the Companys capital management strategy. The following table summarizes repurchase activity in 2008 and remaining repurchase capacity at December 31, 2008. Quarterly Period Ending Number of shares purchased Cost of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Remaining capacity under share repurchase program March 31, 2008 20,831,251 $ 1,000,332,704 $ 48.02 $ 4,931,853,967 June 30, 2008 15,287,182 750,014,344 49.06 4,181,839,623 September 30, 2008 6,197,529 271,984,984 43.89 3,909,854,639 December 31, 2008 2,712,550 99,997,100 36.86 3,809,857,539 Total 45,028,512 $ 2,122,329,132 $ 47.13 $ 3,809,857,539 Since the inception of the repurchase authorizations in May 2006, the Company has repurchased a cumulative total of 123.9 million shares for a total cost of $6.19 billion, or $49.98 per share, through December 31, 2008. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company acquired 0.8 million, 1.7 million and 1.2 million shares, respectively, of common stock from employees as treasury stock primarily to cover payroll withholding taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock awards and exercises of stock options. Capital Resources Capital resources reflect the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet its needs. The following table summarizes the components of the Companys capital structure at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (at December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 Debt: Short term $ 242 $ 649 Long term 5,938 5,577 Net unamortized fair value adjustments and debt issuance costs 1 16 Total debt 6,181 6,242 Preferred shareholders equity 89 112 Common shareholders equity: Common stock and retained earnings, less treasury stock 26,130 25,834 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources (900 ) 670 Total shareholders equity 25,319 26,616 Total capitalization $ 31,500 $ 32,858 The $1.36 billion decrease in total capitalization from year end 2007 reflected the impact of $2.12 billion of common share repurchases, a net after tax $764 million decline in net unrealized appreciation on investments (to a net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008), $715 million of dividends to shareholders, a $405 million decline primarily due to a reduction in the fair value of pension plan assets, and, to a lesser degree, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These factors were partially offset by net income in 2008. The net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 reflected the impact of rising interest rates on longer dated fixed maturity securities primarily due to the widening of credit spreads generally. Line of Credit Agreement. The Company maintains an $800 million commercial paper program, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2008, with back up liquidity consisting of a bank 118 Table of Contents credit agreement. On June 10, 2005, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion, five year revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions. Pursuant to covenants in the credit agreement, the Company must maintain an excess of consolidated net worth over goodwill and other intangible assets of not less than $10 billion at all times. The Company must also maintain a ratio of total consolidated debt to the sum of total consolidated debt plus consolidated net worth of not greater than 0.40 to 1.00. In addition, the credit agreement contains other customary restrictive covenants as well as certain customary events of default, including with respect to a change in control. At December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and all other covenants related to its outstanding debt instruments. There was no amount outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2008. Shelf Registration. In December 2008, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a universal shelf registration statement for the potential offering and sale of securities to replace its expiring universal shelf registration statement. The Company may offer these securities from time to time at prices and on other terms to be determined at the time of offering. During 2008 and 2007, the Company issued $500 million and $2.50 billion, respectively, of debt (as described above) under the prior shelf registration statement. Share Repurchase Authorization. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $3.81 billion of capacity remaining under its share repurchase authorization approved by the board of directors. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2008, the Companys future payments under contractual obligations and estimated claims and claims related payments. The table excludes short term obligations and includes only liabilities at December 31, 2008 that are expected to be settled in cash. The table below includes the amount and estimated future timing of claims and claim related payments. The amounts do not represent the exact liability, but instead represent estimates, generally utilizing actuarial projections techniques, at a given accounting date. These estimates include expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the policyholder event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. The future cash flows related to the items contained in the table below required estimation of both amount (including severity considerations) and timing. Amount and timing are frequently estimated separately. An estimation of both amount and timing of future cash flows related to claims and claim related payments is generally reliable only in the aggregate with some unavoidable estimation uncertainty. 119  Table of Contents The contractual obligations related to debt, operating leases, purchase obligations, long term unfunded investment commitments, estimated claims and claims related payments (gross of the estimated reinsurance recoveries) and liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, at December 31, 2008 were as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Debt(1) Medium term notes $ 21 $ $ 21 $ $ Senior notes 4,650 250 750 3,650 Junior subordinated debentures 1,254 1,254 Zero coupon convertible notes 141 141 Private placement notes 15 2 13 Total debt principal 6,081 143 284 750 4,904 Interest 5,384 371 708 662 3,643 Total long term debt obligations 11,465 514 992 1,412 8,547 Operating leases(2) 802 180 289 173 160 Purchase obligations Information systems administration and maintenance commitments(3) 237 77 94 66 Reinsurance brokerage commitment(4) 80 20 40 20 Other purchase commitments(5) 110 61 9 5 35 Total purchase obligations 427 158 143 91 35 Long term unfunded investment commitments (6) 1,562 374 505 454 229 Estimated claims and claims related payments Claims and claim adjustment expenses(7) 55,735 11,862 15,015 9,103 19,755 Claims from large deductible policies(8) Loss based assessments(9) 231 32 52 25 122 Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits(10) 49 49 Payout from ceded funds withheld(11) 283 53 139 9 82 Total estimated claims and claims related payments 56,298 11,996 15,206 9,137 19,959 Liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits(12) 1,280 752 528 Total $ 71,834 $ 13,974 $ 17,663 $ 11,267 $ 28,930 (1)See note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of outstanding indebtedness. Because the amounts reported in the foregoing table include principal and interest, the total long term debt obligations will not agree with the amounts reported in note 8. (2)Represents agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business to lease office space, equipment and furniture. (3)Includes agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. 120 Table of Contents (4)In connection with the sale of its insurance brokerage operations, the Company committed to acquire brokerage services from the buyer through 2012. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. (5)Includes commitments to vendors entered into in the ordinary course of business for goods and services including office supplies, archival services, etc. (6)Represents estimated timing for fulfilling unfunded commitments for private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures and certain private equity investments. (7)The amounts in "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the table above represent the estimated timing of future payments for both reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses, gross of reinsurance recoverables. The Company has entered into reinsurance agreements to protect itself from potential losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept as described in note 5 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In order to qualify for reinsurance accounting, a reinsurance agreement must indemnify the insurer from insurance risk, i.e., the agreement must transfer amount and timing risk. Since the timing and amount of cash inflows from such reinsurance agreements are directly related to the underlying payment of claims and claim adjustment expenses by the insurer, reinsurance receivables are recognized in a manner consistent with the liabilities (the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses) relating to the underlying reinsured contracts. The presence of any feature that can delay timely reimbursement of claims by a reinsurer results in the reinsurance contract being accounted for as a deposit rather than reinsurance. (See below.) The assumptions used in estimating the amount and timing of the reinsurance receivables are consistent with those used in estimating the amount and timing of the related liabilities. Reinsurance agreements that do not transfer both amount and timing risk are accounted for as deposits and included in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" in the table above. The estimated future cash inflows from the Companys reinsurance contracts that qualify for reinsurance accounting are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Reinsurance receivables $ 13,553 $ 2,705 $ 3,448 $ 2,221 $ 5,179 The Company manages its business and evaluates its liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expense on a net of reinsurance basis. The estimated cash flows on a net of reinsurance basis are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Claims and claim adjustment expenses, net $ 42,182 $ 9,157 $ 11,567 $ 6,882 $ 14,576 For business underwritten by non U.S. operations, future cash flows related to reported and unreported claims incurred and related claim adjustment expenses were translated at the spot rate on December 31, 2008. The amounts reported in the table above and in the table of reinsurance receivables above are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that the liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses and the related reinsurance receivables have 121 Table of Contents been discounted in the balance sheet. (See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements.) (8)Workers compensation large deductible policies provide third party coverage in which the Company typically is responsible for paying the entire loss under such policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount. "Claims from large deductible policies" represent the estimated future payment for claims and claim related expenses below the deductible amount, net of the estimated recovery of the deductible. The liability and the related deductible receivable for unpaid claims are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as "contractholder payables" and "contractholder receivables," respectively. Most deductibles for such policies are paid directly from the policyholders escrow which is periodically replenished by the policyholder. The payment of the loss amounts above the deductible are reported within "Claims and claim adjustment expenses" in the above table. Because the timing of the collection of the deductible (contractholder receivables) occurs shortly after the payment of the deductible to a claimant (contractholder payables), these cash flows offset each other in the table. The estimated timing of the payment of the contractholder payables and the collection of contractholder receivables for workers compensation policies is presented below: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Contractholder payables/receivables $ 6,350 $ 1,619 $ 1,811 $ 937 $ 1,983 (9)The amounts in "Loss based assessments" relate to estimated future payments of second injury fund assessments which would result from payment of current claim liabilities. Second injury funds cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a pre existing condition. For loss based assessments, the cost is shared by the insurance industry and self insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self insureds based on losses. Amounts relating to second injury fund assessments are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. (10)The amounts in "Reinsurance contracts accounted for as deposits" represent estimated future nominal payments for reinsurance agreements that are accounted for as deposits. Amounts payable under deposit agreements are included in "other liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts reported in the table are presented on a nominal basis and have not been adjusted to reflect the time value of money. Accordingly, the amounts above will differ from the Companys balance sheet to the extent that deposit values in the balance sheet have been discounted using deposit accounting. (11)The amounts in "Payout from ceded funds withheld" represent estimated payments for losses and return of funds held related to certain reinsurance arrangements whereby the Company holds a portion of the premium due to the reinsurer and is allowed to pay claims from the amounts held. (12)Amounts are included in the consolidated balance sheet as "Other liabilities" and "Deferred tax asset." Some of the Companys liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits have associated temporary differences for which offsetting current or deferred tax assets exist and are as follows: (in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years Receivables related to unrecognized tax benefits $ 1,186 $ 663 $ 523 $ $ The above table does not include an analysis of liabilities reported for structured settlements for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of default by the company issuing the annuity. The Company is not reasonably likely to incur material future 122 Table of Contents payment obligations under such agreements. In addition, the Company does not have a best estimate of contributions expected to be paid to its qualified pension plan. Accordingly, any future contributions are not included in the foregoing table. Dividend Availability The Companys principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and Minnesota. The insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to the Companys subsidiaries requires notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurers capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurers net income for the twelve month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which the Companys subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. A maximum of $3.07 billion is available by the end of 2009 for such dividends without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department for Connecticut domiciled subsidiaries and the Minnesota Department of Commerce for Minnesota domiciled subsidiaries. The holding company received $3.70 billion of dividends from its domestic insurance subsidiaries in 2008. Risk Based Capital The NAIC adopted RBC requirements for property casualty companies to be used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital higher than RBC requirements. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2008, all of the Companys insurance subsidiaries had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any company or regulatory action. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has entered into certain contingent obligations for guarantees related to letters of credit, issuance of debt securities, certain investments and various indemnifications, including those related to the sale of business entities. See note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect these arrangements to have a material effect on the Companys financial position, changes in financial position, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company considers its most significant accounting estimates to be those applied to claims and claim adjustment expense reserves and related reinsurance recoverables, investment valuation and impairments, and goodwill impairments. Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent managements estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and 123 Table of Contents projection techniques, at a given accounting date. These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on the Companys assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing loss reserves, the Company also takes into account estimated recoveries, reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The loss reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, changes in individuals involved in the reserve estimation process, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. The Company continually refines its loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. The Company rigorously attempts to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including, but not limited to, the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses may be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, may be materially different in amount than current loss reserves favorable or unfavorable. Because establishment of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established loss reserves may change. The Company reflects adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations in the period the estimates are changed. There are also additional risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability of the Company and its insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; estimating the impact of demand surge, infrastructure disruption, fraud, the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophe, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. A portion of the Companys gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation, which totaled $3.70 billion at December 31, 2008. While the ongoing review of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of the Companys management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to the Companys future operating results. See the preceding discussion of "Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." 124 Table of Contents Gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line were as follows: 2008 2007 (at December 31, in millions) Case IBNR Total Case IBNR Total General liability $ 6,529 $ 11,809 $ 18,338 $ 7,180 $ 12,388 $ 19,568 Property 1,414 858 2,272 1,069 963 2,032 Commercial multi peril 1,816 2,140 3,956 1,860 2,499 4,359 Commercial automobile 2,413 1,511 3,924 2,450 1,640 4,090 Workers compensation 9,419 6,872 16,291 9,373 6,474 15,847 Fidelity and surety 697 1,168 1,865 878 1,026 1,904 Personal automobile 1,448 1,043 2,491 1,466 998 2,464 Homeowners and personal other 633 800 1,433 545 739 1,284 International and other 2,120 1,956 4,076 3,054 3,017 6,071 Property casualty 26,489 28,157 54,646 27,875 29,744 57,619 Accident and health 68 9 77 71 10 81 Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 26,557 $ 28,166 $ 54,723 $ 27,946 $ 29,754 $ 57,700 The $2.98 billion decline in gross claims and claim adjustment expense reserves since December 31, 2007 primarily reflected favorable prior year reserve development during 2008, payments related to operations in runoff (including asbestos and environmental payments) and the sale of Unionamerica, partially offset by catastrophe losses incurred. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company made a $449 million settlement payment related to ACandS, Inc., formerly a national distributor and installer of products containing asbestos, that reduced claim and claim adjustment expense reserves. (Also, see "Part I Item 3, Legal Proceedings"). Asbestos and environmental reserves are included in the General liability, Commercial multi peril and International and other lines in the summary table. Asbestos and environmental reserves are discussed separately; see "Asbestos Claims and Litigation", "Environmental Claims and Litigation" and "Uncertainty Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves." General Discussion The process for estimating the liabilities for claims and claim expenses begins with the collection and analysis of claim data. Data on individual reported claims, both current and historical, including paid amounts and individual claim adjuster estimates, are grouped by common characteristics (components) and evaluated by actuaries in their analyses of ultimate claim liabilities by product line. Such data is occasionally supplemented with external data as available and when appropriate. The process of analyzing reserves for a component is undertaken on a regular basis, generally quarterly, in light of continually updated information. Multiple estimation methods are available for the analysis of ultimate claim liabilities. Each estimation method has its own set of assumption variables and its own advantages and disadvantages, with no single estimation method being better than the others in all situations and no one set of assumption variables being meaningful for all product line components. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the particular estimation methods when applied to a particular group of claims can also change over time. Therefore, the actual choice of estimation method(s) can change with each evaluation. The estimation method(s) chosen are those that are believed to produce the most reliable indication at that particular evaluation date for the claim liabilities being evaluated. In most cases, multiple estimation methods will be valid for the particular facts and circumstances of the claim liabilities being evaluated. This will result in a range of reasonable estimates for any 125 Table of Contents particular claim liability. The Company uses such range analyses to back test whether previously established estimates for reserves at the reporting segments are reasonable, given subsequent information. Reported values found to be closer to the endpoints of a range of reasonable estimates are subject to further detailed reviews. These reviews may substantiate the validity of managements recorded estimate or lead to a change in the reported estimate. The exact boundary points of these ranges are more qualitative than quantitative in nature, as no clear line of demarcation exists to determine when the set of underlying assumptions for an estimation method switches from being reasonable to unreasonable. As a result, the Company does not believe that the endpoints of these ranges are or would be comparable across companies. In addition, potential interactions among the different estimation assumptions for different product lines make the aggregation of individual ranges a highly judgmental and inexact process. Property casualty insurance policies are either written on a claims made or on an occurrence basis. Claims made policies generally cover, subject to requirements in individual policies, claims reported during the policy period. Policies that are written on an occurrence basis require that the insured demonstrate that a loss occurred in the policy period, even if the insured reports the loss many years later. Most general liability policies are written on an occurrence basis. These policies are subject to substantial loss development over time as facts and circumstances change in the years following the policy issuance. The occurrence form, which accounts for much of the reserve development in asbestos and environmental exposures, is also used to provide coverage for construction general liability, including construction defect. Occurrence based forms of insurance for general liability exposures require substantial projection of various trends, including future inflation and judicial interpretations and societal litigation dynamics, among others. A basic premise in most actuarial analyses is that past patterns demonstrated in the data will repeat themselves in the future, absent a material change in the associated risk factors discussed below. To the extent a material change affecting the ultimate claim liability is known, such change is quantified to the extent possible through an analysis of internal company data and, if available and when appropriate, external data. Such a measurement is specific to the facts and circumstances of the particular claim portfolio and the known change being evaluated. Significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can materially impact the reserve estimation process. Informed judgment is applied throughout the reserving process. This includes the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. In addition to actuaries, experts involved with the reserving process also include underwriting and claims personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. Therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. It is also likely that during periods of significant change, such as a merger, consistent application of informed judgment becomes even more complicated and difficult. The variables discussed above in this general discussion have different impacts on reserve estimation uncertainty for a given product line, depending on the length of the claim tail, the reporting lag, the impact of individual claims and the complexity of the claim process for a given product line. Product lines are generally classifiable as either long tail or short tail, based on the average length of time between the event triggering claims under a policy and the final resolution of those claims. Short tail claims are reported and settled quickly, resulting in less estimation variability. The longer the time before final claim resolution, the greater the exposure to estimation risks and hence the greater the estimation uncertainty. A major component of the claim tail is the reporting lag. The reporting lag, which is the time between the event triggering a claim and the reporting of the claim to the insurer, makes estimating 126 Table of Contents IBNR inherently more uncertain. In addition, the greater the reporting lag, the greater the proportion of IBNR to the total claim liability for the product line. Writing new products with material reporting lags can result in adding several years worth of IBNR claim exposure before the reporting lag exposure becomes clearly observable, thereby increasing the risk associated with pricing and reserving such products. The most extreme example of claim liabilities with long reporting lags are asbestos claims. For some lines, the impact of large individual claims can be material to the analysis. These lines are generally referred to as being "low frequency/high severity," while lines without this "large claim" sensitivity are referred to as "high frequency/low severity." Estimates of claim liabilities for low frequency/high severity lines can be sensitive to the impact of a small number of potentially large claims. As a result, the role of judgment is much greater for these reserve estimates. In contrast, for high frequency/low severity lines the impact of individual claims is relatively minor and the range of reasonable reserve estimates is narrower and more stable. Claim complexity can also greatly affect the estimation process by impacting the number of assumptions needed to produce the estimate, the potential stability of the underlying data and claim process, and the ability to gain an understanding of the data. Product lines with greater claim complexity, such as for certain surety and construction exposures, have inherently greater estimation uncertainty. Actuaries have to exercise a considerable degree of judgment in the evaluation of all these factors in their analysis of reserves. The human element in the application of actuarial judgment is unavoidable when faced with material uncertainty. Different actuaries may choose different assumptions when faced with such uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, the estimates selected by the various actuaries may differ materially from each other. Lastly, significant structural changes to the available data, product mix or organization can also materially impact the reserve estimation process. Events such as mergers increase the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends reestablish themselves within the new organization. Risk factors The major causes of material uncertainty ("risk factors") generally will vary for each product line, as well as for each separately analyzed component of the product line. In a few cases, such risk factors are explicit assumptions of the estimation method, but in most cases, they are implicit. For example, a method may explicitly assume that a certain percentage of claims will close each year, but will implicitly assume that the legal interpretation of existing contract language will remain unchanged. Actual results will likely vary from expectations for each of these assumptions, causing actual paid losses, as claims are settled in the future, to be different in amount than the reserves being estimated currently. Some risk factors will affect more than one product line. Examples include changes in claim department practices, changes in settlement patterns, regulatory and legislative actions, court actions, timeliness of claim reporting, state mix of claimants and degree of claimant fraud. The extent of the impact of a risk factor will also vary by components within a product line. Individual risk factors are also subject to interactions with other risk factors within product line components. The effect of a particular risk factor on estimates of claim liabilities cannot be isolated in most cases. For example, estimates of potential claim settlements may be impacted by the risk associated with potential court rulings, but the final settlement agreement typically does not delineate how much of the settled amount is due to this and other factors. The evaluation of data is also subject to distortion from extreme events or structural shifts, sometimes in unanticipated ways. For example, the timing of claims payments in one geographic region will be impacted if claim adjusters are temporarily reassigned from that region to help settle catastrophe claims in another region. 127  Table of Contents While some changes in the claim environment are sudden in nature (such as a new court ruling affecting the interpretation of all contracts in that jurisdiction), others are more evolutionary. Evolutionary changes can occur when multiple factors affect final claim values, with the uncertainty surrounding each factor being resolved separately, in stepwise fashion. The final impact is not known until all steps have occurred. Sudden changes generally cause a one time shift in claim liability estimates, although there may be some lag in reliable quantification of their impact. Evolutionary changes generally cause a series of shifts in claim liability estimates, as each component of the evolutionary change becomes evident and estimable. Actuarial methods for analyzing and estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves The principal estimation and analysis methods utilized by the Companys actuaries are the paid development method, the case incurred development method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method, and average value analysis combined with the reported claim development method. The BF method is usually utilized for more recent accident periods, with a transition to other methods as the underlying claim data becomes more voluminous and therefore more credible. These are typically referred to as traditional actuarial methods. (See Glossary for an explanation of these methods.) While these are the principal methods utilized throughout the Company, actuaries evaluating a particular component for a product line have available to them the full range of methods developed within the casualty actuarial profession. The Companys actuaries are also continually monitoring developments within the profession for advances in existing techniques or the creation of new techniques that might improve current and future estimates. Some components of product line reserves are susceptible to relatively infrequent large claims that can materially impact the total estimate for that component. In such cases, the Companys actuarial analysis generally isolates and analyzes separately such large claims. The reserves excluding such large claims are generally analyzed using the traditional methods described above. The reserves associated with large claims are then analyzed utilizing various methods, such as: Estimating the number of large claims and their average values based on historical trends from prior accident periods, adjusted for the current environment and supplemented with actual data for the accident year analyzed to the extent available. Utilizing individual claim adjuster estimates of the large claims, combined with continual monitoring of the aggregate accuracy of such claim adjuster estimates. (This monitoring may lead to supplemental adjustments to the aggregate of such claim estimates.) Utilizing historic longer term average ratios of large claims to small claims, and applying such ratios to the estimated ultimate small claims from traditional analysis. Ground up analysis of the underlying exposure (typically used for asbestos and environmental). The results of such methodologies are subjected to various reasonability and diagnostic tests, including paid to incurred loss ratios, implied incurred loss to earned premium ratios and non zero claim severity trends. An actual versus expected analysis is also performed comparing actual loss development to expected development based on the prior review. Additional analyses may be performed based on the results of these diagnostics, including the investigation of other actuarial methods. The methods described above are generally utilized to evaluate managements existing estimate for prior accident periods. For the initial estimate of the current accident year, the available claim data is typically insufficient to produce a reliable indication. Hence, the initial estimate for an accident year is generally based on a loss ratio projection method, which uses the earned premium for the current year 128 Table of Contents multiplied by a projected loss ratio. The projected loss ratio is determined through an analysis of prior periods experience, using loss trend, rate level differences, mix of business changes and other known or observed factors influencing the current accident year relative to prior accident years. The exact number of prior accident years utilized varies by product line component, based on the volume of business for that component and the reliability of an individual accident year estimate. Managements estimates At least once per quarter, certain Company management meets with its actuaries to review the latest claims and claim adjustment expense reserve analyses. Based on these analyses, management determines whether its ultimate claim liability estimates should be changed. In doing so, it must evaluate whether the new data provided represents credible actionable information or an anomaly that will have no effect on estimated ultimate claim liability. For example, as described above, payments may have decreased in one geographic region due to fewer claim adjusters being available to process claims. The resulting claim payment patterns would be analyzed to determine whether or not the change in payment pattern represents a change in ultimate claim liability. Such an assessment requires considerable judgment. It is frequently not possible to determine whether a change in the data is an anomaly until sometime after the event. Even if a change is determined to be permanent, it is not always possible to reliably determine the extent of the change until sometime later. The overall detailed analyses supporting such an effort can take several months to perform. This is because the underlying causes of the trends observed need to be evaluated, which may require the gathering or assembling of data not previously available. It may also include interviews with experts involved with the underlying processes. As a result, there can be a time lag between the emergence of a change and a determination that the change should be reflected in the Companys estimated claim liabilities. The final estimate selected by management in a reporting period is based on these various detailed analyses of past data, adjusted to reflect any new actionable information. Discussion of Product Lines The following section details reserving considerations and common risk factors by product line. There are many additional risk factors that may impact ultimate claim costs. Each risk factor presented will have a different impact on required reserves. Also, risk factors can have offsetting or compounding effects on required reserves. For example, in workers compensation, the use of expensive medical procedures that result in medical cost inflation may enable workers to return to work faster, thereby lowering indemnity costs. Thus, in almost all cases, it is impossible to discretely measure the effect of a single risk factor and construct a meaningful sensitivity expectation. In order to provide information on reasonably possible reserving changes by product line, the historical changes in year end loss reserves over a one year period are provided for the U.S. product lines. This information is provided for both the Company and the industry for the nine most recent years, and is based on the most recent publicly available data for the reported line(s) that most closely match the individual product line being discussed. These changes were calculated, net of reinsurance, from statutory annual statement data found in Schedule P of those statements, and represent the reported reserve development on the beginning of the year claim liabilities divided by the beginning claim liabilities, all accident years combined, excluding non defense related claim adjustment expense. Data presented for the Company includes history for the entire Travelers group (U.S. companies only), whether or not the individual subsidiaries were originally part of SPC or TPC. This treatment is required by the statutory reporting instructions promulgated by state regulatory authorities for Schedule P. Comparable data for non U.S. companies is not available. 129 Table of Contents General Liability General liability is generally considered a long tail line, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims from a given accident year. The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction and specific policy provisions such as self insured retentions. There are numerous components underlying the general liability product line. Some of these have relatively moderate payment patterns (with most of the claims for a given accident year closed within 5 to 7 years), while others can have extreme lags in both reporting and payment of claims (e.g., a reporting lag of a decade or more for "construction defect" claims). While the majority of general liability coverages are written on an "occurrence" basis, certain general liability coverages (such as those covering directors and officers or professional liability) are typically insured on a "claims made" basis. General liability reserves are generally analyzed as two components: primary and excess/umbrella, with the primary component generally analyzed separately for bodily injury and property damage. Bodily injury liability payments reimburse the claimant for damages pertaining to physical injury as a result of the policyholders legal obligation arising from non intentional acts such as negligence, subject to the insurance policy provisions. In some cases the damages can include future wage loss (which is a function of future earnings power and wage inflation) and future medical treatment costs. Property damage liability payments result from damages to the claimants private property arising from the policyholders legal obligation for non intentional acts. In most cases, property damage losses are a function of costs as of the loss date, or soon thereafter. In addition, sizable or unique exposures are reviewed separately. These exposures include asbestos, environmental, other mass torts, construction defect, medical malpractice and large unique accounts that would otherwise distort the analysis. These unique categories often require a very high degree of judgment and require reserve analyses that do not rely on traditional actuarial methods. Defense costs are also a part of the insured costs covered by liability policies and can be significant, sometimes greater than the cost of the actual paid claims. For some products this risk is mitigated by policy language such that the insured portion of defense costs erodes the amount of policy limit available to pay the claim. Such "defense within the limits" policies are most common for "claims made" products. When defense costs are outside of the limits, amounts paid for defense costs do not erode the policy limits. This line is typically the largest source of reserve estimate uncertainty in the United States (excluding assumed reinsurance contracts covering the same risk). Major contributors to this reserve estimate uncertainty include the reporting lag (i.e., the length of time between the event triggering coverage and the actual reporting of the claim), the number of parties involved in the underlying tort action, whether the "event" triggering coverage is confined to only one time period or is spread over multiple time periods, the potential dollars involved (in the individual claim actions), whether such claims were reasonably foreseeable and intended to be covered at the time the contracts were written (i.e., coverage dispute potential), and the potential for mass claim actions. Claims with longer reporting lags result in greater inherent risk. This is especially true for alleged claims with a latency feature, particularly where courts have ruled that coverage is spread over multiple policy years, hence involving multiple defendants (and their insurers and reinsurers) and multiple policies (thereby increasing the potential dollars involved and the underlying settlement complexity). Claims with long latencies also increase the potential recognition lag (i.e., the lag between writing a type of policy in a certain market and the recognition that such policies have potential mass tort and or latent claim exposure). The amount of reserve estimate uncertainty also varies significantly by component for the general liability product line. The components in this product line with the longest latency, longest reporting lags, largest potential dollars involved and greatest claim settlement complexity are asbestos and environmental. Components that include latency, reporting lag and or complexity issues, but to a 130 Table of Contents materially lesser extent than asbestos and environmental, include construction defect, medical malpractice and other mass tort actions. Many components of general liability are not subject to material latency or claim complexity risks and hence have materially less uncertainty than the previously mentioned components. In general, policies providing coverage with shorter reporting lags, fewer parties involved in settlement negotiations, only one policy potentially triggered per claim, fewer potential settlement dollars, reasonably foreseeable (and stable) potential hazards/claims and no mass tort potential result in much less reserve estimate uncertainty than policies without those characteristics. In addition to the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion section, the company utilizes various report year development and S curve methods for the construction defect components of this product line. The Construction Defect report year development analysis is supplemented with projected claim counts and average values for IBNR claim counts. For components with greater lags in claim reporting, such as excess and umbrella components of this product line, the company relies more heavily on the BF method than on the paid and case incurred development methods. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required general liability reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: General liability risk factors Changes in claim handling philosophies Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provisions New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue, in general with specificity to particular issues Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Shifts in law suit mix between federal and state courts Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) Changes in settlement patterns (e.g., medical malpractice) General liability book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for general liability (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.5% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, over the last nine years has varied from 5% to 14% (averaging 5%) for the Company and from 3% to 7% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. General liability reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 28% of the Companys total loss reserves. 131 Table of Contents The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line, excluding estimated asbestos and environmental amounts, was 5% for 2008, 2% for 2007 and +2% for 2006. The 2008 change primarily reflected significant favorable prior year reserve development, driven by several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2007 change was driven by better than expected loss development for recent accident years attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2006 change largely resulted from directors and officers and errors and omissions adjustments due to worse than expected large loss activity and additional information from detailed claim reviews, primarily associated with accident years 2002 and 2003. Property Property is generally considered a short tail line with a simpler and faster claim reporting and adjustment process than liability coverages, and less uncertainty in the reserve setting process (except for more complex business interruption claims). It is generally viewed as a moderate frequency, low to moderate severity line, except for catastrophes and coverage related to large properties. The claim reporting and settlement process for property coverage claim reserves is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a low estimation risk, except possibly for catastrophes and business interruption claims. Property reserves are typically analyzed in two components, one for catastrophic or other large single events, and another for all other events. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required property reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Property risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services Local building codes Amount of time to return property to full usage (for business interruption claims) Court interpretation of policy provisions (such as occurrence definition, or wind versus flooding) Lags in reporting claims (e.g., winter damage to summer homes, hidden damage after an earthquake) Court or legislative changes to the statute of limitations Property book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for property, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 34% to 26% (averaging 6%) for the Company, and from 14% to 7% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range of historical adverse development comes from certain businesses that the Company has since exited, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year 132 Table of Contents changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Property reserves represent approximately 4% of the Companys total loss reserves. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The reserve estimates for this product line are also potentially subject to material changes due to uncertainty in measuring ultimate losses for unprecedented significant catastrophes such as the events of September 11, 2001 and Hurricane Katrina. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 22% for 2008, 18% for 2007 and 11% for 2006. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable development in the 2007 accident year for certain large property, ocean marine and inland marine claim exposures, and improvements in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred late in 2006 as well as better than expected frequency and severity due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and lower policy limits. In addition, the property product line experienced better than expected large loss outcomes which were partially attributable to favorable litigation resolutions. The 2006 change primarily reflected less "demand surge" inflation than originally estimated for 2005 accident year non catastrophe and catastrophe losses. Commercial Multi Peril Commercial multi peril provides a combination of property and liability coverage typically for small businesses and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. For property coverage, it generally takes a relatively short period of time to close claims, while for the other coverages, generally for the liability coverages, it takes a longer period of time to close claims. The reserving risk for this line is dominated by the liability coverage portion of this product, except occasionally in the event of catastrophic or large single losses. The reserving risk for this line differs from that of the general liability product line and the property product line due to the nature of the customer. Commercial multi peril is generally sold to smaller sized accounts, while the customer profile for general liability and property includes larger customers. See "Property risk factors" and "General liability risk factors," discussed above, with regard to reserving risk for commercial multi peril. Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial multi peril (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 16% to 2% (averaging 5%) for the Company, and from 3% to 6% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial multi peril reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. 133 Table of Contents As discussed above, this line combines general liability and property coverages and it has been impacted in the past by many of the same events as those two lines. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 16% for 2008, 8% for 2007 and 4% for 2006. The 2008 change was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Also contributing to the change was improvement in the litigation environment relating to, and ongoing claim settlements for, Hurricane Katrina. The 2007 and 2006 changes were attributable to better than expected results due to, among other factors, increasingly favorable legal and judicial environments as well as enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. Commercial Automobile The commercial automobile product line is a mix of property and liability coverages and, therefore, includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. In general, claim reporting lags are minor, claim complexity is not a major issue, and the line is viewed as high frequency, low to moderate severity. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Commercial automobile reserves are typically analyzed in four components: bodily injury liability; property damage liability; collision claims; and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate risk factors are not presented. The Company utilizes the traditional actuarial methods mentioned in the general discussion above in estimating claim liabilities for this line. This is supplemented with detailed custom analyses where needed. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required commercial automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Changes in auto safety technology Subrogation opportunities Changes in claim handling philosophies Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Commercial automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in mix of insured vehicles (e.g., long haul trucks versus local and smaller vehicles, fleet risks versus non fleets) Changes in underwriting standards 134  Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for commercial automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.2% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 9% (averaging 1%) for the Company, and from 3% to 9% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Commercial automobile reserves represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 7% for 2008, 10% for 2007 and 7% for 2006. The 2008 change was a result of better than expected loss development, primarily for accident years 2005 through 2007, which was attributable to several factors, including improved legal and judicial environments, and enhanced risk control, underwriting and claim process initiatives. The 2007 change was due to better than expected loss development, for recent accident years, as a result of more favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. The 2006 change was due to better than expected loss development, primarily for accident years 2003 through 2005, which was attributable to favorable legal and judicial environments, claim handling initiatives and improvements in auto safety technology. Workers Compensation Workers compensation is generally considered a long tail coverage, as it takes a relatively long period of time to finalize claims from a given accident year. While certain payments such as initial medical treatment or temporary wage replacement for the injured worker are made quickly, some other payments are made over the course of several years, such as awards for permanent partial injuries. In addition, some payments can run as long as the injured workers life, such as permanent disability benefits and on going medical care. Despite the possibility of long payment tails, the reporting lags are generally short, settlements are generally not complex, and most of the liability can be considered high frequency with moderate severity. The largest reserve risk generally comes from the low frequency, high severity claims providing lifetime coverage for medical expense arising from a workers injury. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a somewhat greater than moderate estimation risk. Workers compensation reserves are typically analyzed in three components: indemnity losses, medical losses and claim adjustment expenses. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required workers compensation reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Indemnity risk factors Time required to recover from the injury Degree of available transitional jobs Degree of legal involvement Changes in the interpretations and processes of the workers compensation commissions oversight of claims(1) Future wage inflation for states that index benefits Changes in the administrative policies of second injury funds (1)These are administrative bodies that evaluate whether or not a given claim for workers compensation benefits is valid. Their duties include the determination of whether a given injury arose out of the scope of employment or the determination of the degree of injury where disputes exist. 135 Table of Contents Medical risk factors Changes in the cost of medical treatments (including prescription drugs) and underlying fee schedules ("inflation") Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Type of medical treatments received Use of preferred provider networks and other medical cost containment practices Availability of new medical processes and equipment Changes in the use of pharmaceutical drugs Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment General workers compensation risk factors Frequency of claim reopenings on claims previously closed Mortality trends of injured workers with lifetime benefits and medical treatment Degree of cost shifting between workers compensation and health insurance Workers compensation book of business risk factors Product mix Injury type mix Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for workers compensation, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 2% to 2% (averaging 0%) for the Company, and from 1% to 4% (averaging 1%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Workers compensation reserves represent approximately 30% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% for 2008, and 0% for 2007 and 2006. The 2008 change was primarily driven by higher than anticipated medical costs related to claims from older accident years. Fidelity and Surety Fidelity is generally considered a short tail coverage. It takes a relatively short period of time to finalize and settle fidelity claims. The volatility of fidelity reserves is generally related to the type of business of the insured, the size and complexity of the insureds business operations, amount of policy limit and attachment point of coverage. The uncertainty surrounding reserves for small, commercial insureds is typically less than the uncertainty for large commercial or financial institutions. The high frequency, low severity nature of small commercial fidelity losses provides for stability in loss estimates whereas, the low frequency, high severity nature of losses for large insureds results in a wider range of ultimate loss outcomes. Actuarial techniques that rely on a stable pattern of loss development are generally not applicable to low frequency, high severity policies. Surety has certain components that are generally considered short tail coverages with short reporting lags, although large individual construction and commercial surety contracts can result in a long settlement tail, based on the length and complexity of the construction project or commercial transaction being insured. (Large construction projects can take many years to complete.) The 136 Table of Contents frequency of losses in surety correlates with economic cycles as the primary cause of surety loss is the inability to perform financially. The volatility of surety losses is generally related to the type of business performed by the insured, the type of bonded obligation, the amount of limit exposed to loss and the amount of assets available to the insurer to mitigate losses, such as unbilled contract funds, collateral, first and third party indemnity, and other security positions of an insureds assets. Certain classes of surety claims are very high severity, low frequency in nature. These can include large construction contractors involved with one or multiple large, complex projects as well as certain large commercial surety exposures. Other claim factors affecting reserve variability of surety include litigation related to amounts owed by and due the insured (e.g., salvage and subrogation efforts) and the results of financial restructuring of an insured. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required fidelity and surety reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Fidelity risk factors Type of business of insured Policy limit and attachment points Third party claims Coverage litigation Complexity of claims Growth in insureds operations Surety risk factors Economic trends, including the general level of construction activity Concentration of reserves in a relatively few large claims Type of business insured Type of obligation insured Cumulative limits of liability for insured Assets available to mitigate loss Defective workmanship/latent defects Financial strategy of insured Changes in statutory obligations Geographic spread of business Fidelity and Surety book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, limits, endorsements) Changes in underwriting standards Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for fidelity and surety, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.4% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 10% to 138% (averaging 21%) for the Company, and from 11% to 24% (averaging 6%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. Because the high end of the Companys range was due to acquired business in 2004, the Company believes that the industrys range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Fidelity and surety reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. In general, developments on single large claims (both adverse and favorable) are a primary source of changes in reserve estimates for this product line. 137 Table of Contents The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 10% for 2008, 1% for 2007 and 5% for 2006. The 2008 change was a result of better than expected loss experience for the contract surety business within this product line, primarily driven by favorable settlements on large claims from older accident years. The 2006 change was due to better than expected large loss activity. Personal Automobile Personal automobile includes both short and long tail coverages. The payments that are made quickly typically pertain to auto physical damage (property) claims and property damage (liability) claims. The payments that take longer to finalize and are more difficult to estimate relate to bodily injury claims. Reporting lags are relatively short and the claim settlement process for personal automobile liability generally is the least complex of the liability products. It is generally viewed as a high frequency, low to moderate severity product line. Overall, the claim liabilities for this line create a moderate estimation risk. Personal automobile reserves are typically analyzed in five components: bodily injury liability, property damage liability, no fault losses, collision claims and comprehensive claims. These last two components have minimum reserve risk and fast payouts and, accordingly, separate factors are not presented. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required personal automobile reserves (beyond those included in the general reserve discussion section) include: Bodily injury and property damage liability risk factors Trends in jury awards Changes in the underlying court system and its philosophy Changes in case law Litigation trends Frequency of claims with payment capped by policy limits Change in average severity of accidents, or proportion of severe accidents Subrogation opportunities Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Changes in claim handling philosophies No fault risk factors (for selected states and time periods) Effectiveness of no fault laws Frequency of visits to health providers Number of medical procedures given during visits to health providers Types of health providers used Types of medical treatments received Changes in cost of medical treatments Degree of patient responsiveness to treatment Personal automobile book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for personal automobile, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. 138 Table of Contents Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 9% to 1% (averaging 4%) for the Company, and from 4% to 0% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Personal automobile reserves represent approximately 5% of the Companys total loss reserves. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 1% for 2008, 5% for 2007 and 7% for 2006. The decreases in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were primarily due to better than expected results from changes in claim handling practices as well as initiatives to fight fraud. Homeowners and Personal Lines Other Homeowners is generally considered a short tail coverage. Most payments are related to the property portion of the policy, where the claim reporting and settlement process is generally restricted to the insured and the insurer. Claims on property coverage are typically reported soon after the actual damage occurs, although delays of several months are not unusual. The claim is settled when the two parties agree on the amount due in accordance with the policy contract language and the appropriate payment is made (or alternatively, the property replacement/repair is performed by the insurer). The resulting settlement process is typically fairly short term, although exceptions do exist. The liability portion of the homeowners policy generates claims which take longer to pay due to the involvement of litigation and negotiation, but with generally small reporting lags. In addition, reserves related to umbrella coverages have greater uncertainty since umbrella liability payments are often made far into the future. Overall, the line is generally high frequency, low to moderate severity (except for catastrophes), with simple to moderate claim complexity. Homeowners reserves are typically analyzed in two components: non catastrophe related losses and catastrophe loss payments. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required homeowners reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: Non catastrophe risk factors Salvage opportunities Amount of time to return property to residential use Changes in weather patterns Local building codes Litigation trends Trends in jury awards Catastrophe risk factors Physical concentration of policyholders Availability and cost of local contractors Local building codes Quality of construction of damaged homes Amount of time to return property to residential use For the more severe catastrophic events, "demand surge" inflation, which refers to significant short term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services 139 Table of Contents Homeowners book of business risk factors Policy provisions mix (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, etc.) Degree of concentration of policyholders Changes in underwriting standards Changes in the use of credit data for rating and underwriting Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for homeowners and personal lines other, a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.1% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. Historically, the one year change in the reserve estimate for this product line over the last nine years has varied from 31% to 3% (averaging 11%) for the Company, and from 8% to 11% (averaging 2%) for the industry overall. The Companys year to year changes are driven by, and are based on, observed events during the year. The Company believes that its range of historical outcomes is illustrative of reasonably possible one year changes in reserve estimates for this product line. Homeowners and personal lines other reserves represent approximately 3% of the Companys total loss reserves. This line combines both liability and property coverages; however, the majority of the reserves relate to property. While property is considered a short tail coverage, the one year change for property can be more volatile than that for the longer tail product lines. This is due to the fact that the majority of the reserve for property relates to the most recent accident year, which is subject to the most uncertainty for all product lines. This recent accident year uncertainty is relevant to property because of weather related events which tend to be concentrated in the second half of the year, and generally are not completely resolved until the following year. Reserve estimates associated with major catastrophes may take even longer to resolve. The Companys change in reserve estimate for this product line was 13% for 2008, 3% for 2007 and 22% for 2006. The 2008 change was primarily driven by favorable loss experience related to Hurricane Katrina, by claim initiatives, by better than expected outcomes on 2007 catastrophe related claims and by improvements in older accident years for the umbrella line. The 2007 change was due to fewer than expected late reported claims related to non catastrophe weather events that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, a portion of the change was attributable to a decrease in the number of claims due to changes in the marketplace, including higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims. The 2006 change was due to lower than expected additional living expenses related to Hurricane Katrina as well as better than expected non catastrophe related frequency and severity, due in part to changes in the marketplace, such as higher deductibles and fewer small dollar claims, and continued evidence of a less than expected impact from demand surge. International and other International and other includes products written by International and other products not discussed above. The principal component of "other" claim reserves is assumed reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis, which may include reinsurance of non U.S. exposures, and is runoff business. International and other claim liabilities result from a mix of coverages, currencies and jurisdictions/countries. The common characteristic is the need to customize the analysis to the individual component, and the inability to rely on data characterizations and reporting requirements in the U.S. statutory reporting framework. Due to changes in the business mix for this line over time, the recently incurred claim liabilities are relatively short term (due to both the products and the jurisdictions involved, e.g., the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom), while the older liabilities include some from runoff operations that 140 Table of Contents are extremely long tail (e.g., U.S. excess liabilities reinsured through the London market, and several underwriting pools in runoff). The speed of claim reporting and claim settlement is a function of the specific coverage provided, the jurisdiction, the distribution system (e.g., underwriting pool versus direct) and the proximity of the insurance sale to the insured hazard (e.g., insured and insurer located in different countries). In particular, liabilities arising from the underwriting pools in runoff may result in significant reporting lags, settlement lags and claim complexity, due to the need to coordinate with other pool members or co insurers through a broker or lead insurer for claim settlement purposes. International and other reserves are generally analyzed by program/pool, country and general coverage category (e.g., U.S. Liability excess of loss reinsurance, or General Liability Municipalities by country). The business is also generally split by direct versus assumed reinsurance for a given coverage/jurisdiction. Where the underlying insured hazard is outside the United States, the underlying coverages are generally similar to those described under the General Liability and Automobile discussion above, but under a different legal system. Where the underlying hazard is within the U.S., the coverage involved is typically that of General Liability, but on an excess or excess of loss reinsurance basis. Excess exposure requires the insured to "prove" not only claims under the policy, but also the prior payment of claims reaching up to the excess policys attachment point. Examples of common risk factors, or perceptions thereof, that could change and, thus, affect the required International and other reserves (beyond those included in the general discussion section) include: International and other risk factors Changes in claim handling procedures, including those of the primary carriers Changes in policy provisions or court interpretation of such provision New theories of liability Trends in jury awards Changes in the propensity to sue Changes in statutes of limitations Changes in the underlying court system Distortions from losses resulting from large single accounts or single issues Changes in tort law Changes in claim adjuster office structure (causing distortions in the data) International and other book of business risk factors Changes in policy provisions (e.g., deductibles, policy limits, endorsements, "claims made" language) Changes in underwriting standards Product mix (e.g., size of account, industries insured, jurisdiction mix) Unanticipated changes in risk factors can affect reserves. As an indicator of the causal effect that a change in one or more risk factors could have on reserves for International and other (excluding asbestos and environmental), a 1% increase (decrease) in incremental paid loss development for each future calendar year could result in a 1.3% increase (decrease) in loss reserves. International and other reserves (excluding asbestos and environmental) represent approximately 7% of the Companys total loss reserves. International and other represents a combination of different product lines, some of which are in runoff. Comparative historical information is not available for international product lines as insurers domiciled outside of the U.S. do not file U.S. statutory reports. Comparative historical information on runoff business is not indicative of reasonably possible one year changes in the reserve estimate for this mix of runoff business. Accordingly, the Company has not included comparative analyses for International and other. 141 Table of Contents Reinsurance Recoverables Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated claim liability. The Company evaluates and monitors the financial condition of its reinsurers under voluntary reinsurance arrangements to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in coverage disputes with its reinsurers. Some of these disputes could result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against the reinsurers to determine the Companys rights and obligations under the various reinsurance agreements. The Company employs dedicated specialists and aggressive strategies to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. The Company reports its reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoverables. The allowance is based upon the Companys ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, disputes, applicable coverage defenses and other relevant factors. Accordingly, the establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. From time to time, as a result of the long tailed nature of the underlying liabilities, coverage complexities and potential for disputes, the Company considers the commutation of reinsurance contracts. Changes in estimated reinsurance recoverables and commutation activity could result in additional income statement charges. Total reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2008 declined by $1.41 billion from the same date in 2007, primarily reflecting the sale of Unionamerica, various commutation agreements and collections on reinsurance recoverables, including those related to prior year hurricane losses. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2008 declined by $70 million from the same date in 2007, generally due to settlement activity and commutations. Recoverables attributable to structured settlements relate primarily to personal injury claims, of which workers compensation claims comprise a significant portion, for which the Company has purchased annuities and remains contingently liable in the event of a default by the companies issuing the annuities. Recoverables attributable to mandatory pools and associations relate primarily to workers compensation service business and have the obligation of the participating insurance companies on a joint and several basis supporting these cessions. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys reinsurance recoverable assets: (at December 31, in millions) 2008 2007 Gross reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses $ 9,376 $ 10,731 Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (618 ) (688 ) Net reinsurance recoverables 8,758 10,043 Structured settlements 3,517 3,615 Mandatory pools and associations 1,957 1,983 Total reinsurance recoverables $ 14,232 $ 15,641 Investment Valuation and Impairments Fair Value Measurements The Companys estimates of fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities are based on the framework established in FASB Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157). The framework is based on the inputs used in valuation and gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and requires that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. The disclosure of fair value estimates in the FAS 157 hierarchy is based on whether the significant inputs into the 142 Table of Contents valuation are observable. In determining the level of the hierarchy in which the estimate is disclosed, the highest priority is given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the Companys significant market assumptions. The three levels of the hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company has the ability to access. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets; or valuations based on models where the significant inputs are observable (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities, etc.) or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 Valuations based on models where significant inputs are not observable. The unobservable inputs reflect the Companys own assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use. Valuation of Investments Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements The fair value of a financial instrument is the estimated amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties, i.e., not in a forced transaction. The estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ from the amount that could be realized if the security was sold in an immediate sale, e.g., a forced transaction. Additionally, the valuation of fixed maturity investments is more subjective when markets are less liquid due to the lack of market based inputs, which may increase the potential that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of an investment is not reflective of the price at which an actual transaction would occur. For investments that have quoted market prices in active markets, the Company uses the quoted market prices as fair value and includes these prices in the amounts disclosed in Level 1 of the hierarchy. The Company receives the quoted market prices from a third party, nationally recognized pricing service (pricing service). When quoted market prices are unavailable, the Company utilizes a pricing service to determine an estimate of fair value, which is mainly for its fixed maturity investments. The fair value estimates provided from this pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. If quoted market prices and an estimate from a pricing service are unavailable, the Company produces an estimate of fair value based on internally developed valuation techniques, which, depending on the level of observable market inputs, will render the fair value estimate as Level 2 or Level 3. The Company bases all of its estimates of fair value for assets on the bid price as it represents what a third party market participant would be willing to pay in an arms length transaction. Fixed Maturities The Company utilizes a pricing service to estimate fair value measurements for approximately 99% of its fixed maturities. The pricing service utilizes market quotations for fixed maturity securities that have quoted prices in active markets. Since fixed maturities other than U.S. Treasury securities generally do not trade on a daily basis, the pricing service prepares estimates of fair value measurements for these securities using its proprietary pricing applications which include available relevant market information, benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings, and matrix pricing. Additionally, the pricing service uses an Option Adjusted Spread model to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The pricing service evaluates each asset class based on relevant market information, relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. The market inputs utilized in the pricing 143 Table of Contents evaluation, listed in the approximate order of priority, include: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, and industry and economic events. The extent of the use of each market input depends on the asset class and the market conditions. Depending on the security, the priority of the use of inputs may change or some market inputs may not be relevant. For some securities additional inputs may be necessary. The pricing service utilized by the Company has indicated that they will only produce an estimate of fair value if there is objectively verifiable information to produce a valuation. If the pricing service discontinues pricing an investment, the Company would be required to produce an estimate of fair value using some of the same methodologies as the pricing service, but would have to make assumptions for market based inputs that are unavailable due to market conditions. The fair value estimates of most fixed maturity investments are based on observable market information rather than market quotes. Accordingly, the estimates of fair value for such fixed maturities, other than U.S. Treasury securities, provided by the pricing service are included in the amount disclosed in Level 2 of the hierarchy. The estimated fair value of U.S. Treasury securities is included in the amount disclosed in Level 1 as the estimates are based on unadjusted market prices. The Company reviews the estimates of fair value provided by the pricing service and compares the estimates to the Companys knowledge of the market to determine if the estimates obtained are representative of the prices in the market. The Company produces a report monthly that lists all price changes from the previous month in excess of 10%. The Company reviews the report and will challenge any prices deemed not to be representative of fair value. In addition, the Company has implemented various other processes including randomly selecting purchased or sold securities and comparing execution prices to the estimates from the pricing service as well as reviewing reports that contain securities whose valuation did not change from their previous valuation (stale price review). These processes were implemented in mid 2007 and have not highlighted any significant issues with the fair value estimates received from the pricing service. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company began using additional independent pricing services to further test the primary pricing services valuation of the Companys fixed maturity portfolio, and will continue to use such additional pricing services in future quarters. Using certain month end data from October and November 2008, the secondary pricing services provided fair value estimates on approximately 98% of the fixed maturity portfolio, and those estimates, in the aggregate, were not materially different than the estimated fair value provided by the Companys primary pricing service. The Company holds privately placed corporate bonds and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal matrix that is based on market information regarding interest rates, credit spreads and liquidity. The underlying source data for calculating the matrix of credit spreads relative to the U.S. Treasury curve are the Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index and the Merrill Lynch High Yield BB Rated Index. The Company includes the fair value estimates of these corporate bonds in Level 2, since all significant inputs are market observable. As many of these securities are issued by public companies, the Company compares the estimates of fair value to the fair values of these companies publicly traded debt to test the validity of the internal pricing matrix. While the vast majority of the Companys municipal bonds are included in Level 2, the Company holds a small number of municipal bonds which are not valued by the pricing service and estimates the fair value of these bonds using an internal pricing matrix with some unobservable inputs that are significant to the valuation. Due to the limited amount of observable market information, the Company includes the fair value estimates for these particular bonds in Level 3. Additionally, the Company holds a small amount of fixed maturities that have characteristics that make them unsuitable for matrix pricing. For these fixed maturities, the Company obtains a quote from a broker (typically a market 144 Table of Contents maker). Due to the disclaimers on the quotes that indicate that the price is indicative only, the Company includes these fair value estimates in Level 3. Equities Public Common and Preferred For public common and preferred stocks, the Company receives prices from a nationally recognized pricing service that are based on observable market transactions and includes these estimates in the amount disclosed in Level 1. Infrequently, current market quotes in active markets are unavailable for certain non redeemable preferred stocks held by the Company. In these instances, the Company receives an estimate of fair value from the pricing service that provides fair value estimates for the Companys fixed maturities. The service utilizes some of the same methodologies to price the non redeemable preferred stocks as it does for the fixed maturities. The Company includes the estimate in the amount disclosed in Level 2. Other Investments Venture Capital Investments and Non Public Common and Preferred Equity Securities The Company holds investments in venture capital investments and non public common and preferred stocks, with a fair value estimate of $224 million, reported in other investments, where the fair value estimate is determined either internally or by an external fund manager based on recent filings, operating results, balance sheet stability, growth and other business and market sector fundamentals. The Company holds shares of common stock of one private company with a fair value estimate of $162 million at December 31, 2008, for which the estimate of fair value is provided by a third party appraiser on behalf of the investee and adjusted for a liquidity discount which takes into consideration the transfer restrictions on the common stock. Due to the significant unobservable inputs in these valuations, the Company includes the total fair value estimate for all of these investments at December 31, 2008 in the amount disclosed in Level 3. Derivatives The Company uses derivatives generally to hedge its net investment in a foreign subsidiary. The Company also holds non public warrants in a public company and has convertible bonds containing embedded conversion options that are reported separately from the host bond contract. For the derivatives used to hedge the net investment of a foreign subsidiary, the Company uses quoted market prices to estimate fair value and includes the fair value estimate, which was in a liability position of approximately $2 million at December 31, 2008, in Level 1. The Company estimates fair value for the warrants using an option pricing model with observable market inputs. Because the warrants are not market traded and information concerning market participants is not available, the Company includes the fair value estimate of $87 million at December 31, 2008 in the amount disclosed in Level 3 other investments. The Company separately values the embedded conversion options based on observable market inputs and includes the estimate of fair value in Level 2. Valuation of Investments Not Reported at Fair Value in Financial Statements Short term Securities The Companys short term investments consist mainly of high quality commercial paper (primarily A1/P1) with an average of 39 days to maturity at December 31, 2008. Additionally, it is the Companys policy to not invest in structured products for its short term investments. The Company believes that there is insignificant credit risk in its short term portfolio and that amortized cost approximates fair value. The Company includes short term investments in its impairment monitoring to identify any credit issues. 145  Table of Contents Real Estate Real estate is recorded on the purchase date at the purchase price, which generally represents fair value, and is supported by internal analysis or external appraisals, using discounted cash flow analyses and other acceptable valuation techniques. Real estate is subsequently carried at the Companys cost, net of depreciation. Other Investments The Companys investment portfolio includes other investments not carried at fair value which include private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships (together, partnerships), joint ventures, and mortgage loans. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investments in partnerships and joint ventures, and amortized cost is used for mortgage loans. The partnerships generally report investments on their balance sheet at fair value. The financial statements prepared by the investee are received by the Company on a lag basis, with the lag period generally dependent upon the type of underlying investments. The private equity partnerships and real estate partnerships provide financial information quarterly which is generally available to investors, including the Company, within three to six months following the date of the reporting period. The hedge funds provide financial information monthly, which is generally available to investors within one month following the date of the reporting period. The Company regularly requests financial information from the partnerships prior to the receipt of the partnerships financial statements, and records any material information obtained from these requests in the financial statements. Investment Impairments The Company recognizes an impairment loss when an invested assets value declines below cost, adjusted for accretion, amortization and previous other than temporary impairments (new cost basis), and it is determined that the decline is other than temporary. Some of the factors considered in evaluating whether a decline in fair value is other than temporary include: (1) the Companys ability and intent to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; (2) the recoverability of principal and interest for fixed maturity securities, or cost for equity securities; (3) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed maturity securities, or cost for equity securities; and (4) the financial condition, near term and long term prospects for the issuer, including the relevant industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices. When the Company determines that an invested asset is other than temporarily impaired, the invested asset is written down to fair value, and the amount of the impairment is included in earnings as a realized investment loss. The fair value then becomes the new cost basis of the investment, and any subsequent recoveries in fair value, other than amounts accreted to the expected recovery amount, are recognized at disposition. Due to the subjective nature of the Companys analysis and estimates of fair value, along with the judgment that must be applied in the analysis, it is possible that the Company could reach a different conclusion whether or not to impair a security if it had access to additional information about the investee. Additionally, it is possible that the investees ability to meet future contractual obligations may be different than what the Company determined during its analysis, which may lead to a different impairment conclusion in future periods. The Company recognizes a realized loss when impairment is deemed to be other than temporary even if a decision to sell an invested asset has not been made. When the Company has decided to sell a temporarily impaired available for sale invested asset and the Company does not expect the fair value of the invested asset to fully recover prior to the expected time of sale, the invested asset is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired in the period in which the decision to sell is made. 146 Table of Contents The Companys process for identifying and reviewing invested assets for impairments during any quarter includes the following: Identification and evaluation of investments that have possible indications of other than temporary impairment, which includes an analysis of all investments with gross unrealized investment losses that have fair values less than 80% of cost; Review and evaluation of external and internal portfolio managers recommendations for other than temporary impairments of any other investments based on the investees current financial condition, liquidity, near term recovery prospects, the outlook for the business sectors in which the investee operates and other factors (in addition to reviewing investments with an estimated fair value of less than 80% of cost); Consideration of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or triggers that may or may not cause individual investments to qualify as having other than temporary impairments; and Determination of the status of each analyzed investment as other than temporary or not, with documentation of the rationale for the decision. Sales of Temporarily Impaired Invested Assets The Company may, from time to time, sell invested assets subsequent to the balance sheet date that were considered temporarily impaired at the balance sheet date. Such sales are generally due to events occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date that result in a change in the Companys intent or ability to hold an invested asset. The types of events that may result in a sale include significant changes in the economic facts and circumstances related to the invested asset, significant unforeseen changes in an individual subsidiarys liquidity needs, or changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment. Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities An investment in a fixed maturity or equity security which is available for sale is impaired if its fair value falls below its cost or new cost basis, and the decline is considered to be other than temporary. A fixed maturity security is other than temporarily impaired if it is probable that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due under the securitys contractual terms, the Company does not have the intent to hold the security, or the Company does not expect to recover its cost over a forecasted recovery period. Additionally, for certain securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows (including asset backed securities), the Company updates its estimate of the present value of expected cash flows over the life of the security on a quarterly basis. If management determines that the fair value of the securitized financial asset and the present value of the assets cash flows estimated at the current financial reporting date are less than the present value of the estimated cash flows at the date of purchase (or previous financial reporting date), then an other than temporary impairment is recognized and the securitized financial asset is written down to fair value. Equity securities are other than temporarily impaired when it becomes apparent that the Company will not recover its cost over a forecasted recovery period. For securities expected to be sold, an other than temporary impairment charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security to recover prior to the expected date of sale. For public securities managed by external managers, the Company cannot assert the intent and ability to hold the securities to recovery and therefore considers the securities impaired when the fair value is below the cost basis at the end of the reporting period. 147 Table of Contents Real Estate Investments On at least an annual basis, the Company obtains independent appraisals for substantially all of its real estate investments. In addition, the carrying value of a real estate property is reviewed for impairment on a quarterly basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The review for impairment considers the valuation from the independent appraisal, when applicable, and incorporates an estimate of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the real estate property. An impairment loss is recognized if the expected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the real estate property. The impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Other Investments Mortgage Loans A mortgage loan is considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect principal and interest amounts due. For mortgage loans that are determined to be impaired, a reserve is established for the difference between the amortized cost and the fair market value of the underlying collateral. In estimating fair value, the Company uses interest rates reflecting the current real estate financing market returns. The Company did not have any impaired mortgage loans at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Venture Capital Investments and Non Public Common and Preferred Equity Securities Externally managed venture capital investments and non public common and preferred equity securities are reviewed quarterly for other than temporary impairment by the external fund manager and the Companys portfolio managers. Internally managed venture capital investments and non public and preferred equity securities are reviewed quarterly by the Companys portfolio managers. The Companys portfolio managers and the external fund manager review and consider a variety of factors in determining the valuation of the investments and the potential for other than temporary impairments. Factors considered include the following: The investees most recent financing events; An analysis of whether a fundamental deterioration or improvement has occurred; Whether the investees progress has been substantially more or less than expected; Whether or not the valuations have improved or declined significantly in the investees market sector; Whether or not the external fund manager and the Company believe it is probable that the investee will need financing within six months at a lower price than the Companys carrying value; and Whether or not the Company has the ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery, enabling the Company to receive value equal to or greater than its cost. An impairment loss is recognized if, based on the specific facts and circumstances, it is probable that the Company will not be able to recover all of its cost of an individual holding. The quarterly valuation procedures described above are in addition to the portfolio managers ongoing responsibility to frequently monitor developments affecting those invested assets, paying particular attention to events that might give rise to impairment write downs. 148 Table of Contents Other Investments Excluding Venture Capital Investments and Non Public Common and Preferred Equity Securities Included in other investments are private equity limited partnerships, investments in hedge funds and real estate partnerships that generally report investments on their balance sheet at fair value and are accounted for by the Company using the equity method of accounting. The Company reviews these investments for impairment no less frequently than quarterly and monitors the performance throughout the year through discussions with the managers/general partners. If the Company becomes aware of an impairment of a partnerships investments at the balance sheet date prior to receiving the partnerships financial statements, it will recognize an impairment by recording a reduction in the carrying value of the partnership with a corresponding charge to net investment income. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairments The Company performs a review, on at least an annual basis, of goodwill held by the reporting units which are the Companys three operating and reportable segments: Business Insurance, Financial, Professional & International Insurance, and Personal Insurance. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units and compares it to their carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying values of the reporting units exceed their fair value, the amount of the impairment is calculated and goodwill is adjusted accordingly. In 2008, the Company changed its methodology for estimating the fair value of its reporting units from a multiple of earnings model to a discounted cash flow model. This change was made as a result of the effects of a severe disruption of the credit and equity markets and significant changes in the insurance industry that caused disparities between the multiple of earnings of the Company and the observed multiple of earnings of its competitors. The discounted cash flow model is an income approach to valuation that is based on a more detailed analysis for deriving a current fair value of reporting units and is more representative of the Companys current and expected future financial performance. The discounted cash flow model relies on the Companys assumptions of its future operating earnings, discounted utilizing an estimate of the Companys cost of equity. Other indefinite lived intangible assets held by the Company are also reviewed for impairment on at least an annual basis. The classification of the asset as indefinite lived is reassessed, and an impairment is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Intangible assets that are deemed to have finite useful life are amortized over their useful lives. The carrying amount of intangible assets with a finite useful life is regularly reviewed for indicators of impairment in value. Impairment is recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows and is measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. The Companys review did not result in an impairment of its indefinite lived or finite lived intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. OTHER UNCERTAINTIES For a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impact the Companys results of operations or financial position, see note 15 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A Risk Factors." FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See note 1 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 149 Table of Contents The Company is currently required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). During 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a proposed Roadmap for comment for the potential use in filings with the SEC of financial statements for U.S. issuers prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), instead of in accordance with GAAP. The Roadmap contains milestones that, if achieved, may lead the SEC to decide in 2011 to require the use of IFRS for large accelerated filers, including the Company, in 2014. The SEC also is proposing to permit U.S. companies to elect to file using IFRS, as adopted by the IASB, as early as 2010, if the company is in an industry group that reports using IFRS more commonly than any other set of standards, and if the company is one of the 20 largest companies in the industry worldwide based on market capitalization. The IASB and the FASB are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that may involve methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current GAAP. The FASB and the IASB are also embarked on a long term project to converge GAAP and IFRS. The Company is not able to predict whether it will choose to, or be required to, adopt IFRS or how the adoption of IFRS (or the convergence of GAAP and IFRS) may impact the Companys financial statements in the future. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains, and management may make, certain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward looking statements. Specifically, earnings guidance, statements about the Companys share repurchase plans, statements about the potential impact of the recent disruption in the investment markets and other economic conditions on the Companys investment portfolio and underwriting results are forward looking, and the Company may make forward looking statements about its results of operations (including, among others, premium volume, net and operating income, investment income, return on equity, expected current returns and combined ratio), and financial condition (including, among others, invested assets and liquidity); the sufficiency of the Companys asbestos and other reserves (including, among others, asbestos claim payment patterns); the cost and availability of reinsurance coverage; catastrophe losses; investment performance; investment, economic and underwriting market conditions; and strategic initiatives. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Companys control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward looking information and statements. For a discussion of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ, see "Item 1A Risk Factors". and "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2008. The Companys 150 Table of Contents market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $70.74 billion and $74.82 billion, respectively, of which 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 5.5% and 6.5%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $206 million and $286 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.3% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $47 million and $89 million of such securities in 2008 and the fourth quarter of 2007, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Aa2" and "Aaa" at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately $81 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2008. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal bond portfolio, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 81% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate and adversely impact the financial condition and or revenues of states, municipalities and political subdivisions, the value of the Companys holdings could be adversely impacted. However, the Company believes, based on current market conditions, that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2008. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2008 with and without the third party insurance and includes pre funded and escrowed to maturity securities, as well as securities issued without third party insurance. The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $38.79 billion and $38.55 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be 151 Table of Contents enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.9% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. No other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 2.2% of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2008 or 2007. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio 152 Table of Contents durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2008 and 2007 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.5 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of both December 31, 2008 and 2007. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. As a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the Companys consolidated balance sheet, primarily claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the Companys exposure to foreign currencies. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $386 million and $485 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 153  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates." The Companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements.  Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. Market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. The following is a discussion of the Companys primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of December 31, 2008. The Companys 150 Table of Contents market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of the Companys investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $70.74 billion and $74.82 billion, respectively, of which 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 5.5% and 6.5%, respectively, of the Companys invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. The Companys exposure to equity price risk is not significant. The Company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007 included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $206 million and $286 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.3% and 0.4% of the Companys total fixed maturity investments, respectively). The disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage backed securities provided the Company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at discounted prices. The Company purchased $47 million and $89 million of such securities in 2008 and the fourth quarter of 2007, respectively. The Company defines sub prime mortgage backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low FICO scores, above prime interest rates, high loan to value ratios or high debt to income ratios. Alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government sponsored entitys requirements for credit score but do not meet the government sponsored entitys guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan to value ratios. The average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the Company was "Aa2" and "Aaa" at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately $81 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2008. The Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. The downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. Of the insured municipal bond portfolio, approximately 99% were rated at A3 or above, and approximately 81% were rated at Aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate and adversely impact the financial condition and or revenues of states, municipalities and political subdivisions, the value of the Companys holdings could be adversely impacted. However, the Company believes, based on current market conditions, that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the Companys ability and intent to hold the securities. The average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "Aa3" at December 31, 2008. The average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "Aa1" at December 31, 2008 with and without the third party insurance and includes pre funded and escrowed to maturity securities, as well as securities issued without third party insurance. The primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. The portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. The Companys tax exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $38.79 billion and $38.55 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Federal and or state tax legislation could be 151 Table of Contents enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. The primary market risk for all of the Companys debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. For additional information regarding the Companys debt see note 8 of notes to the Companys consolidated financial statements as well as the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of "Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.9% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. No other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 2.2% of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2008 or 2007. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio 152 Table of Contents durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2008 and 2007 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.5 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of both December 31, 2008 and 2007. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. As a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the Companys consolidated balance sheet, primarily claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the Companys exposure to foreign currencies. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $386 million and $485 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 153  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Companys foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the Companys invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. Cash flows from the Companys foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Invested assets denominated in the British Pound Sterling comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.9% of the total invested assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. No other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 2.2% of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2008 or 2007. There were no other significant changes in the Companys primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. In the Companys sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near term changes in those rates. "Near term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the Company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. Interest Rate Risk In this sensitivity analysis model, the Company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. The sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. The primary market risk to the Companys market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). The sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. For invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. Durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. Durations on tax exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the U.S. Treasury curve. Fixed maturity portfolio 152 Table of Contents durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. For debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical December 31, 2008 and 2007 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. The sensitivity analysis model used by the Company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.5 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of both December 31, 2008 and 2007. The loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the Company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. In addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. As a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the Companys consolidated balance sheet, primarily claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. A hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. The potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the Companys exposure to foreign currencies. The Companys analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $386 million and $485 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 153  Table of Contents  
 
